05/04/2026 - 19:47:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:12 (Artemis Clock)
which is essentially the plan, the piece of software that the crew will follow during the several-hour flyby. If you could actually bring up the screenshot of that lunar targeting plan. This is what's going to guide the crews' observations during the flyby. It is just a guide. They are the field scientists and they are encouraged to, you know, go off-book if what they're seeing in front of them really compels them. We've even built in targets specifically for crew choice where they can really image what pops out to them. And so what you see here is what the crew will be looking at for the entirety of the flyby tomorrow. You see on the left side a list of sort of targets that listed vertically in the top left of the screen. Those are the targets in the timelineed order we're asking them to image them in. And they're in a specific order because ultimately these targets trace back to our lunar science objectives. We have 10 lunar science objectives for this mission. All of them are covered in the targets in tomorrow's targeting plan. And they're in that order down the left side that you can see. The bottom left has the the words that explain the significance of the target, as well as the prompts of what we're asking the crew to image and describe. So we have distinct prompts for the person that will be using the camera that's outfitted with an 80 to 400 millimeter zoom lens. And then we also have prompts for the person that's gonna be looking at the moon at the time with the unaided eye, just using their eyes to describe what they see. Along the bottom is a cue card as a reminder of what should go into their science descriptions. I would expect they're not gonna need to reference the cue card that much because they've had many, many months to practice giving good descriptions. And then of course, the middle, the moon, the picture of the moon. This is to help guide them into the specific target that they're gonna be describing and imaging at the time. You see specific labels called out to help them, you know, provide geographic references for their descriptions. And you also see the previous target and the next target highlighted in different colors. So this is the piece of software that the crew will be looking at. And if you go to the next picture, Rick referenced yesterday that one of the activities that the crew did yesterday was to review that plan. And we just totally ood and ahed in the science evaluation room when we saw them studying in Orion. So there is Victor Glover studying the lunar targeting plan on his tablet, his crew tablet. All four crew had time to study that yesterday and they'll also have a little bit of time to review it tomorrow morning.

05/04/2026 - 19:49:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:14 (Artemis Clock)
Got some questions yesterday on how the crew trained, so I just wanted to show a couple images to highlight that. So the first image is actually when they got the flight-like hardware, the two Nikon cameras that will form the basis of the bulk of their flyby tomorrow. And we actually put visualizations of the moon at the right distance away from them in a facility over in building 36 here at the Johnson Space Center, and actually had them practice giving descriptions and taking pictures. We actually did that several times with them. And if you go to the next chart, we also put them in and near the Orion mock-up, the medium fidelity mock-up we have here at the Space Vehicle mock-up facility here at the Johnson Space Center, and actually had them get inside of Orion and actually look out the window at a giant inflatable moon globe we hung from the ceiling so they could practice that physical choreography they needed to inside of Orion before their flyby. And so the last thing that I'll end with is actually showing a video that I showed yesterday. So if you could play that. This is tomorrow's flyby in 60 seconds. So what tomorrow will look like is a roughly five-hour period where the crew will be observing the illuminated surface of the moon. In response to the question I got yesterday, the two Apollo sites they'll be able to see here at the beginning are the Apollo 12 and 14 landing sites. As they progress through the several hour period where the moon is illuminated, they'll continue to work through that targeting plan. Again, each target is based on our lunar science objectives, and they'll be able to see how the moon is changing throughout their time observing it. They, of course, will have a period that you can find the exact timing on NASA's website and we have it here as well, where there's a loss of signal after Earth disappears from view and before it reappears in Earthrise on the other side. They'll continue their science observations during that time. Then of course, about an hour later, we have this really unique opportunity to observe an eclipse from the vantage point of Orion, where the sun disappears behind the moon from the vantage point of the integrity crew, and they'll be able to observe the solar corona.

05/04/2026 - 19:50:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:15 (Artemis Clock)
Right around sunset and sunrise. They'll also be able to take pictures of several planets that will be visible in view. That includes Earth, of course, Mercury, Venus, Mars, and Saturn. They'll also be able to look for potential Earthshine effects, which is literally the illuminated Earth shedding glow onto the near side of the moon. We've got a jam-packed plan for them tomorrow, and it ultimately all traces to our science objectives. Thanks. All right. We'll now take questions. We'll begin here in the room. We'll also take some from the phone. A reminder, you can press star 1 to get into the question queue. Please limit your question to one at a time, and let's wait for the mic to come around. We can start here with Jackie. Hi, Jackie Wattles, CNN. Question for Kelsey.

05/04/2026 - 19:50:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:15 (Artemis Clock)
I understand during the flyby they're going to be focused on that oriental basin, but we've also heard about the importance of these precursor missions to a landing about scouting possible landing locations, and I know that, you know, the overarching premise here is to...

05/04/2026 - 19:51:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:16 (Artemis Clock)
Establish a base on the South Pole. Can you talk a little bit about what the crew will be looking for in terms of gathering data for those long-term goals? Absolutely. So that is one of our science objectives, actually, is past and future landing sites. And so, like I said, they'll be able to see in terms of past landing sites, Apollo 12 and 14. They'll also be able to kind of on their transit from near side to far side, be able to see Reiner Gamma. That's a target in their lunar targeting plan. That's a really exciting.

05/04/2026 - 19:51:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:16 (Artemis Clock)
Sort of lunar science unknown. A big question that's actually driving eclipse landed mission there, where we'll actually land scientific instruments on the surface to evaluate this really unique feature. And then moving to the far side, of course, we are going to have eyes on the south polar region. Because of the illumination that they'll experience tomorrow, they'll only be able to see kind of the edge of the south polar region and the South Pole Aitken Basin, but it will be a target for them to observe what they can see along the Terminator. Okay, Tariq, go ahead. Thank you. Tariq Malik with Space.com, also for Dr. Young. You know, seven hours for a flyby seems like a long time, and a lot of training has gone into this, and I'm curious what the pace is going to be like both for the crew on the way in and for your team in the operations room and how you make sure that everyone is staying focused.

05/04/2026 - 19:54:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:19 (Artemis Clock)
and yet kind of in it for the duration for, I guess, all of the different phases of the flyway. Yeah, what a wonderful question. Thank you. So we actually did work on that kind of choreography and mental loading with the crew. And so we initially, you know, months ago, started with targets at a cadence of only five or six minutes. That was pretty fast and it didn't really allow them time to kind of like settle into the observation. You know, what we've already seen from their observations so far in flight is that the longer they look at the moon, the more their eyes adjust and the more they're able to discern. So we wanted to allow time per target for them to settle into that observation because ultimately that's going to deliver the most science. So the quickest time per target tomorrow will be roughly eight minutes. And some of the targets, which are kind of crew discussion focused, are longer on the order of 20 minutes. They also, how the sort of flyby choreography will work is for that first five hour period, they will work in pairs. So Reed and Jeremy will observe first while Victor and Christina are doing other tasks and also helping the pair at the forward windows. And then just over an hour later, they'll swap. And so in that way, they kind of can keep fresh with what they're doing. In the middle of each block, so when Reed and Jeremy are at windows two and three, observing the moon, they'll actually swap who is doing the imaging and who is doing the unaided eye descriptions. So they're really able in this first big five hour chunk to really mix it up and work through the targets kind of one by one. I will say, you know, our science officer team did practice it as well for that number of hours, you know, with the representative target length. So we really got a sense for kind of what they're going to be experiencing. And then they do have kind of an hour break in the middle where the vehicle actually points back to its biased tail to sun attitude before pivoting back for the eclipse. So it's kind of like a little lunar science mental break. I also want to highlight something Laurie said earlier, which is that, you know, we have lunar science objectives we want to tackle with this mission, but this is the first mission, right? And we really want to learn about, you know, the choreography of all of this between the ground team supporting all the way up to the crew. And when we think about surface missions with

05/04/2026 - 19:56:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:21 (Artemis Clock)
EVAs with science objectives. We really do need to get used to this sort of mental loading and how we're able to support the crew and not overburden them while still maximizing science. So I'm really excited about kind of this length of time that is relevant for hopeful future exploration and what we're able to learn there. And then the last part of your question about the science team. Thanks for asking. The Lunar Science team will be in the science evaluation room. I know that the live broadcast tomorrow will flash to them occasionally throughout the broadcast. You're gonna see some very excited scientists. They're gonna be absolutely buzzing up there. And what they're gonna be doing is monitoring the crew, of course. The crew will be giving several descriptions an hour, roughly three to four lunar descriptions an hour. And the science team will get to work right away kind of synthesizing those. And then we'll actually downlink the rest of the descriptions overnight in advance of a crew conference we'll have the following morning to again continue the science discussion. And so the Lunar Science team is going to be both really excited and then also trying to keep track of the science through those, what we call science at reps. OK Gina. Gina Scinceri, CBS News. We know the crew is shooting a film camera. When that film comes back, where is it processed and how soon, how will you be able to turn those images around? The crew operated cameras. There will be actually three of them for tomorrow's flyby, two Nikon D5s and one Nikon Z9. The two Nikon D5s will have the 80 to 400 millimeter zoom lens. That's going to be the prime imaging lens for the bulk of the flyby. There's also a 14 to 24 millimeter lens that we're going to be using during the eclipse timeframe. And then the Z9 camera will be especially used around the time of sunset and sunrise for the corona. And actually what we will do is downlink as many images as possible overnight and throughout the rest of the mission, of course, as bandwidth and downlink potential allows. And of course, we'll be getting some out to the public as soon as we possibly can. But the rest that we don't downlink in flight, we'll get once they splash down. And we'll have a team that.

05/04/2026 - 19:56:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:21 (Artemis Clock)
brings the cameras and the flashcards back to Houston pretty quickly and gets them in the pipeline to release all of them out to the public. Go ahead. Thank you for your time today.

05/04/2026 - 19:57:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:22 (Artemis Clock)
Ed Lavendera with CNN. Two questions. Watching the crew today get into the spacesuits and reconfigure the seats, it seemed very difficult, or it takes a long time. Is there ever a situation where, is the speed at which they did that today pretty good? Is it something that needs to be done faster in the future? And then the second question is, when the crew in the capsule is going around the moon, and at least to someone like me sees it, it's almost like they're hicking back quickly, are they going to feel like they're turning back? Is that a sensation that they're gonna have when they're inside the capsule? - I'll take the first one, and maybe Kelsey could take the second one. In terms of the suit donning that we did today, the speed is not particularly something we are concerned about, because the Orion spacecraft has the capability to feed a cabin leak.

05/04/2026 - 19:57:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:22 (Artemis Clock)
to buy the crew the time to put the suits on. It's not something where if we had a strike that punctured a hole in the cabin that the crew wouldn't have time to put the suits on. We have oxygen loaded on the spacecraft, and that oxygen will be continually providing cabin pressure, maintaining 8 PSI in the cabin.

05/04/2026 - 19:57:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:22 (Artemis Clock)
to allow the crew that opportunity to get their suits on safely. And I think we'll have to ask the crew tomorrow what they can and cannot feel, but I can tell you what they're going to see. And we had, you know, a lot of conversations when we started scoping the flyby about how fast are they going to be moving? Are they going to have time to see some of these smaller scale features during the flyby? And so we have an amazing visualization lead for the mission, Ernie Wright, from the Goddard Space Flight Center. And he has done just amazing work to really try to reproduce as

05/04/2026 - 19:58:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:23 (Artemis Clock)
close as possible the illumination conditions they can expect at the speed that it will be moving. And it actually, from the perspective of the spacecraft, they will be moving slow enough to really be able to make robust observations. So it was quite a relief to our team and definitely to the crew when we started playing these visualizations. I don't know what they're going to feel, but I know what they're going to see, and they're gonna have time to make observations.

05/04/2026 - 19:58:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:23 (Artemis Clock)
Hi, Michael Atkinson, Houston Public Media. I want to ask about public engagement. I think that in the social media age, it's a lot harder to keep people's attention compared to the Apollo era when there was just three TV channels. I'm curious what you guys have made of public engagement thus far and what a successful day tomorrow looks like. I understand it's going to be streaming on a lot of different outlets. What would a successful lunar flyby from the public engagement perspective look like?

05/04/2026 - 19:59:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:24 (Artemis Clock)
That's a really great question. I can assure you that we are tracking the metrics very closely every day, absolutely, and the public engagement has been spectacular. It has, I think, dropped a little bit since the launch day.

05/04/2026 - 20:01:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:26 (Artemis Clock)
but I do anticipate a big bump again tomorrow as we have this really key moment in time where we're flying around, we're breaking the Apollo record, we're going to have an eclipse, we're going to have all of these amazing observations. I really think we're going to get another big spike. I'm really looking forward to that. And then I anticipate another big spike when we splash down on Friday evening. Yeah, I might add to that, too, that, you know, first of all, I might turn the question back around on all of you and say that, you know, we our public engagement team has done such an amazing job to package messaging about this mission and specifically the lunar science engagement team has been working for months and months and months to make sure that the public has access to the information about the moon. But please help us, you know, right. This is a unifying moment for all of us, and we really, you know, we've put our best foot forward into preparing this mission for success. And we know what it's going to mean to connect to the moon in that way tomorrow. And, you know, please, all of you in the room and online, please help us get the word out. Okay, go ahead. Hi, TG Mscario with the Epoch Times. Thanks for taking the time and happy Easter. Question for Rick and Lori. Without the landing or parking in orbit, what are you considering the official arrival point? Like when you arrive at the moon? Is it when Orion enters lunar gravity? Is it when the flyby begins? Is it the closest point? Well, I would, I'm looking at Rick here, but from my perspective, as Rick said earlier, when we enter that point where we cross over from being driven by Earth's gravity to being pulled by the moon more strongly than Earth, to me, that's where we start. But given your... I was going to give the same answer, so I agree. I'll give the lunar science example, which is closest approach. Everybody's point of view. Okay, go ahead. Hi, Alejandro Turnbull for Space Scout. Question for Kelsey. Looking forward to future Artemis missions, how are you expecting the science...

05/04/2026 - 20:02:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:27 (Artemis Clock)
Plans to change from what we're going to see tomorrow. What opportunities are going to be afforded to you by having crew both on the surface and in orbit? Oh, my gosh, great question. We're learning a lot about the flyby and orbital observations piece of Artemis missions from Artemis 2, and we're looking forward to learning more with Artemis 3, right? But looking to the future when we do have crew on the surface and crew in orbit, of course, those sort of concurrent observations hold a lot of value. Different vantage points tell you something different scientifically, and having that sort of orbital view from Orion, from an orbiting spacecraft, around the time when the crew is on the surface does enable these really important contextual observations, especially that orbiting crew that's going to be farther away is really going to be able to say, you know, these geologic processes influenced the landing area, and that's going to help us tell the story of the science of the mission and ultimately could impact what type of samples we're asking future crews to collect. And for the payloads that we deploy on the surface, let's provide that landing site contextually in where they landed on the moon. A lot of science value to be gained both from surface science and from concurrent observations. Okay, let's take one from Ken, and then we'll go to the phone for a few. Hi, Ken Chang from New York Times. A couple questions for Kelsey following up. So you said they're going very quickly over the far side. Do you know what the maximum speed is relative to the surface?

05/04/2026 - 20:02:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:27 (Artemis Clock)
And just we're following up on what you all will be doing down here. I remember a media tour last fall, you had this wonderful table.

05/04/2026 - 20:04:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:29 (Artemis Clock)
That you'll be seeing, having interactive, will you be giving feedback to the astronauts or follow-up questions, or you don't want to interrupt them with what they're doing? Great question. Do you know the... I don't know the rate. You do not? We'd have to check on that and get back to you. We'll get back to you. Yes, the science evaluation room is a really exciting room. We worked with mission control to develop this unique flight control room for the mission, specifically with science in mind. It's not a traditional flight control room that has, you know, typically like rows of consoles where disciplines are plugged in with their teams. Scientists like to talk, and they like to talk over airwaves, so we've allowed for that in the science evaluation room. And what you're referencing here is a beautiful smart table where you can actually, and it's a touch table, right, where you can, you know, put up data of the moon and zoom around different areas of the moon to kind of follow along with what the crew are doing. But we will be engaging with them during the flyby, of course, during with the exception of the time when when there is that lot, that planned loss of signal. And we do plan to be following up on their observations. So again, these four people are absolutely ready to give scientifically valuable descriptions, but more brains can help, you know, hone in on nuances of the observations that they're making. And so I we have allowed time for crew discussion where all four of them at the same time will be discussing some scientific question. For example, I believe the first one tomorrow is the near side, far side transition and looking at color and albedo across that transition. They'll be discussing with each other, and I've heard them in simulations, you know, one crew member will say something, and the next crew member will say, oh, actually, I saw it this way, and they're actually able to to really have elevated science discussions. But we do plan to have that interaction from the ground as well, based on what that the science team in the science evaluation room is seeing and hearing from the crew. We'll be able to have a bit of a science dialogue. We have enough hours in the flyby where we'll be able to back to have a back and forth, which I'm really anticipating is going to enhance science return because we have this amazing backroom of lunar scientists and geologists ready to help provide support. And it's super high tech. I can back her up. I've been in there. It's so cool. You'll get to see it, I think, during the feed tomorrow.

05/04/2026 - 20:05:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:30 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we'll take several from the phone now, and we'll start with Jeff Faust with Space News. Good afternoon. Question for Rick. We heard yesterday at the briefing about a mystery smell. The source wasn't identified. It wasn't a cause for concern, but I don't know if you have any updates on whether that smell is persisting and what might be causing it. Thanks. Sure. Good question. We have been trying to correlate the smell and the crew reports of the smell to a particular event or a changing configuration of the spacecraft.

05/04/2026 - 20:06:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:31 (Artemis Clock)
We have a number of heaters that are located near that area of interest, and there's nothing about a heater cycling that we can correlate to the smell. There's nothing about the usage of the toilet that would cause an increase in the concentration to cause a more acute smell or a more mild smell. So right now, there isn't any root cause identified as to what that source is, but we're continuing to proceed with the mission and the use of the toilet nominally.

05/04/2026 - 20:08:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:33 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, our next question is from Stephen Clark with Ars Technica. Hi, thank you for taking my question. I think my question is probably for Rick as well. You mentioned the checkout tonight of the optical comm system Orion. Has that been used thus far in the mission? How has it performed? And also, if it checks out and you're able to get to that 100 megabits per second downlink, will that kind of expedite the downlink of some of the photos we're expecting from tomorrow? Thanks. Sure, yeah, the optical comm system has been performing really well throughout the mission. We've used it throughout all of the lunar transit. We have three sites where we downlink data. We have one in California, one in White Sands, New Mexico, and then a third site, which is kind of a test and a target of opportunity with the Australia National University in Australia. And we've been able to stream video live to that site as well. And yes, if we can get the bandwidth increase to 100 megabits per second, that will absolutely help getting imagery and data from the spacecraft down in a more timely manner. Okay, we'll go to one more on the phone and then come back here in the room. The next question is from Sana Pashankar from Bloomberg. Hi, thank you so much for doing this. A question for Dr. Young. Obviously, it seems like an enormous amount of thought and effort and scientific considerations have been put into preparing for the lunar flyby. I was just wondering, when did the lunar science team at NASA start making preparations for the flyby? Did it start, like, when astronauts were selected in 2023 or after Artemis 1? Yeah, thanks. Yeah, thanks for the question. Not specifically for Artemis 2, but for Artemis science operations in general. It's been a number of years that we've been preparing and integrating with flight operations.

05/04/2026 - 20:09:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:34 (Artemis Clock)
I will say flight operations has been incredibly welcoming. I think it's a testament to the fact that, you know, science is one of the fundamental pillars of Artemis. And, you know, specifically for Artemis II, you know, Rick and Judd and Jeff have been nothing but, you know, really, really welcoming, knowing that, of course, our destination for this mission is, of course, the moon. Specifically for Artemis II science preparations, we did, you know, actually start working with the crew pretty quickly after they were selected, more in a classroom training environment. But that did kick off the discussions for our team about how we wanted to develop our science objectives given the mission profile characteristics as we learned more about that, about how the mission profile was evolving. And so that enabled us to really jump off on establishing our science objectives and, you know, with me being selected as the lead for the lunar science for this mission.

05/04/2026 - 20:10:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:35 (Artemis Clock)
I was really able to build out our amazing team pulled from several different NASA centers, experts in lunar science, geology, visualization, geographic information systems, teams here at the Johnson Space Center who supported Earth observations from the International Space Station that are actually responsible for developing that gorgeous lunar targeting plan. And so the plans for the flyby profile as we're going to execute it tomorrow probably really ramped up in earnest just over a year ago, but prior to that, there was a lot of work going in with the flight operations team for integrating our new science officer console into mission control as well as building out the science evaluation room. Okay, we'll come back into the phone, or pardon me, to the room, Irene, and then we'll go to Tom. Thanks. Irene Clouts with Aviation Week. For Rick, a couple of flight operations questions. First is, which two astronauts attempted to don the suits?

05/04/2026 - 20:12:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:37 (Artemis Clock)
quickly and how much faster did that happen compared to the nominal donning? And on the manual flight demonstration, did the exercise today complete all the, or maybe last night, sorry, I've lost track of days, did that complete all of the manual operations that you're expecting and what have you learned so far about the nuances of Orion's handling that you want to kind of continue more studies on at post-flight? Thanks. Of course, thanks for the question there. As far as who donned the suit rapidly, that was Reed and Victor, and then Christina and Jeremy donned it in the quote-unquote nominal time frame. The rapid donning was attempted to be done in about 15 minutes, which is pretty swift. And again, that corresponds with the time that Orion has to feed the leak and maintain cabin pressure before we can get the crew safely in a pressurized environment. As far as the manual piloting that we have left, we have another test on Wednesday that will be in the crew's afternoon after they build the radiation shelter. And then finally, with respect to the handling qualities, I sat in the back of mission control during the proximity operations demo. I had just worked the ascent shift, but I couldn't stay away, and I had to watch. And it was pretty spectacular to watch Orion pretty much stop on a dime. You know, Victor would deflect the hand controller, release it, and you saw the ICP, the video of the interim cryogenic propulsion stage. You'd see it move and then just stop right on a dime. And so I would say we've got some pretty well-engineered control laws on Orion. Tom. Hi, guys. Tom Costello with NBC News. Thanks for so many great news conferences. I have just a basic question.

05/04/2026 - 20:13:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:38 (Artemis Clock)
I don't have a PhD in rocket science. Can you explain for the audience how it is that when it goes into the moon's gravitational pull, and then when you come around the other side, the Earth's gravitational pull can take over or becomes stronger? You help me understand that and that would be great. And then second of all, can I just confirm with you the photographic number of targets you have and how many photos you expect to take? Sorry if I missed that. All right, I'll take a swing at the orbital mechanics here. So the translunar injection burn essentially raised our apogee, the height of our orbit above Earth, to a point where we targeted such that the moon will, as it orbits Earth, we kind of intercept the moon and we allow the moon's gravity to take over. And then because it's not, because we're not entering into lunar orbit, we coast past apogee relative to Earth and we start falling back to Earth. And eventually the Earth's gravity is gonna take over and bring the spacecraft back into the atmosphere.

05/04/2026 - 20:15:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:40 (Artemis Clock)
As for targets, I was just going to add one more thing to that, is that as you enter, as we talked about, you know, the stronger influence of the moon's gravity, you know, we're out at some distance. And so when it starts to pull on us, we go into a circular, you know, kind of an arc around the moon, and that kind of slingshots us. You can imagine a slingshot around, but then that kind of starts to Overshoot and come back, and then by the time you might, you know, go somewhere else, we're now pulled into Earth's gravity again, right? So it starts to pull us back. So it's the interplay of those two gravity fields that really drive this beautiful dance of the spacecraft. The number of targets, I'll have to get the exact number, but it's in the range of 35 targets. We actually do plan to put out the list of targets hopefully tomorrow morning so that the public can follow along. I will caveat that with that's a plan, right? And they're going to flexibly execute that plan based on what they see. But we will put out kind of the list that they have been, you know, studying to. As for number of pictures, oof, it's a great question. Um, the only way we can kind of make a guess at that is from the mission simulations we've done on the ground, where they're taking pictures of not the real moon. I have a feeling that the real moon is going to be a bigger draw. Um, I would expect thousands of pictures that the crew themselves will take, not to mention the imagery that we will be taking with the Orion vehicle cameras. Okay, we'll go here and then back to Will Robinson Smith after that. Hi, Emily Martin from Cielespas Friends. Thank you so much for doing this. I was wondering, which specific science questions do you hope this flyby will bring? I mean, will answer. The Apollo samples ultimately answered the question of the origins of the moon. What do you hope those data gathered by these human eyes will answer? And also I was wondering if you are planning on taking a photo of Orion with LRO, if it's even feasible. So on the science objective question, um, we do have 10 science objectives, all of which we feel are.

05/04/2026 - 20:17:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:42 (Artemis Clock)
Accomplishable, attackable by the crew with the lunar targeting plan as written. The lunar targeting plan does actually address all 10 of our objectives, but as for the ones that I'm most excited about, I am really excited for, you know, our number one priority objective is, you know, color provinces and albedo, right? This is something that human eyes are just incredibly good at teasing out nuances about, and again, forgive me again, the photometry deep dive, but again, the ability of a crew member to look at the surface in different illumination conditions as the Orion spacecraft is moving across the surface of the moon will allow them to understand morphology and texture, and therefore origin, process, and origin. I mean, you heard even from farther away, Reid say yesterday, oh, I can see much more topography around Tycho than I could in the visualizations. As he's getting closer, he is seeing that 3D effect start to realize, and when they get even closer and they have that sort of extreme flyby profile over a number of hours, they're really going to be able to tease out that dynamic between topography, surface texture, morphology, and color and albedo, and how and if those things overlap. There are some targets on our targeting plan where that's specifically an objective of, do you see a correlation between color and topography? And a negative observation, not seeing it, is a science result, right? And so we do really focus on this unique profile that this mission has. You know, I think we've gotten the question, well, you're so far away, what can you even do? That's actually an asset for our science objectives. They're going to have this whole disk view, and the rate at which they're moving and the illumination changes that they'll experience in several hours enable our science. They don't detract from it. As for complementary observations, yes, we do plan to have complementary observations with the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter. We also have other complementary science investigations, including citizen science here from scientists on Earth who are going to be looking for impact flashes or new craters that are forming on the surface of the moon.

05/04/2026 - 20:18:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:43 (Artemis Clock)
Just like the Artemis II astronauts will be looking for. So lots of chances for coordinated observations, and you can bet we'll be putting out information about that, especially the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter ties post-mission. Okay, Will, and then we'll go back to the phones for a couple of additional questions. Thank you, Rachel. Will Robinson-Smith with Spaceflight Now. Thank you all for taking the time today. A couple to Rick, if I may, about the the Axiom demonstration. Please correct me if I'm wrong, but it sounded like at one point there was a plan to lower the cabin pressure in Orion. Can you talk about when and why that changed? And then the the life limit for the astronauts in the suits we've heard is six days. Can you go into some detail about what the life limiter is for that? I mean, obviously the crew is now within six days nominally of returning to Earth, so if they needed them, they've got that latitude. But can you just go into some explanation about why the six days, what creates that bracket? Thank you.

05/04/2026 - 20:18:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:43 (Artemis Clock)
Sure. You're correct that we are planning on decreasing the cabin pressure in Orion. That was always part of the plan. We're, as we look forward to future Artemis missions, we expect uh lower cabin pressures when we perform dockings to other spacecraft.

05/04/2026 - 20:20:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:45 (Artemis Clock)
And we want to be able to evaluate Orion here on Artemis 2 to understand how it performs at 10.2 pounds per square inch atmosphere, so that when it docks to another spacecraft, we quickly equalize pressure. As far as the 144-hour constraint, that is tied to the oxygen and the ability to supply oxygen to the crew. Those tanks are only so big, and they were sized for that contingency. Okay, we'll take several questions from the phone. Next up is Jackie Mogensen from Scientific American. Hi, thanks for this. I was wondering, on the lunar flyby, I understand that there are a number of things that the astronauts have been training to see, but I was curious what you would say are kind of the wish list items of what would be really cool to see but are not a guarantee. Thank you. Oh, you know, I would think, honestly, a big one is just the amount of color they're going to be able to see and where and when they see it. Again, you know, negative observations, not seeing something, is science. That is something we are learning. So I think we have a lot of questions about where and how subtle color hues will pop out to the crew. You know, we've made, we have guesses, of course. We have educated guesses based on what we know about the lunar surface, especially the far side, which haven't had, you know, human eyes on it before. But we don't know what to expect. We've provided guidance to them on where we think the best places are to, you know, make those observations, but this is exploration, right? And while we have imagery, amazing data from orbiting spacecraft, it's these nuanced observations that we're lacking. And so, you know, this is discovery, right? And we're asking questions that we don't always know the answer to. And that's, you know, some of the value of what these Artemis missions bring. Next up is Marcia Smith with Space Policy Online.

05/04/2026 - 20:21:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:46 (Artemis Clock)
Thanks so much for taking my questions. One question, I think, is to Rick. And could you just clarify about the coolant situation? Have you permanently fixed that, or is it that every certain number of days or something you're going to have to turn the spacecraft towards the sun in order to make sure that that vent doesn't freeze? And this is a permanent solution for this mission or for all of the future Orion missions. Could you just clarify the situation on that? And on a completely different front, I'm just curious to Kelsey and to Lori, maybe wearing your planetary science hat, so when you have the astronauts looking at the far side of the moon and seeing them with their eyes, which the

05/04/2026 - 20:21:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:46 (Artemis Clock)
what Jello can't do, is there any chance you're going to spot something there that is so fascinating that it's going to change maybe plans for eclipse missions or something, to send eclipse missions there to investigate? What do you think the odds are that you'll see something that you really didn't expect?

05/04/2026 - 20:23:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:48 (Artemis Clock)
All right, well, as for the first part of your questions, there are no liens against use of the toilet. The crew members are able to use the toilet, but we are still trying to figure out the wastewater vent line problem. It's kind of a complex engineering issue when you expose a liquid to vacuum. It's a pretty chaotic environment, and there's a lot of theory and textbook work done when you assume it's pure water being exposed to a vacuum. But when you introduce the variable of it being wastewater, there's other complex phenomena that we don't quite yet understand that are factoring into that vent line. And so we're still working through that. This is a good opportunity to learn now on a shorter mission. And, you know, if changes are needed to be made to the spacecraft, you know, we have opportunities before Artemis III to make those changes. What? Kelsey answered the question about if you think we might see something surprising. Rick, do you want to take that one? You know, I think, you know, of course, we don't know what we don't know. And there's a reason, you know, I think your question kind of hits at the heart of why we explore, right? I mean, we can send reconnaissance missions to the bottoms of the ocean and to the poles and to Mars and to the outer solar system. And, you know, I like to think that planetary scientists, you know, have, are pretty good at their jobs and pretty good at outlining plans of what they think will, we will expect to see. But we in the science community like to talk about multiple working hypotheses, right? You know, we take all available data and we form these different hypotheses, and we make a plan to go address and buy down those hypotheses. And so do we have guesses about what they're going to see on the far side? Yes. Do I have solid confidence in exactly what they're going to see? Absolutely not. That is what, why we You know, why we send people out into the cosmos to explore in the first place. And so we're still working through that. This is a good opportunity to learn now on a shorter mission. And, you know, if changes are needed to be made to the spacecraft, you know, we have opportunities before Artemis III to make those changes. Well, Kelsey answered the question about if you think we might see something surprising. Rick, do you want to take a follow-up? You know, I think, you know, of course, we don't know what we don't know. And there's a reason, you know, I think your question kind of hits at the heart of why we explore, right? I mean, we can send reconnaissance missions to the bottoms of the ocean and to the poles and to Mars and to the outer solar system. And, you know, I like to think that planetary scientists, you know, have, are pretty good at their jobs and pretty good at outlining plans of what they think will, we will expect to see. But we in the science community like to talk about multiple working hypotheses, right? You know, we take all available data and we form these different hypotheses, and we make a plan to go address and buy down those hypotheses. And so do we have guesses about what they're going to see on the far side? Yes. Do I have solid confidence in exactly what they're going to see? Absolutely not. That is what, why we, you know, why we send people out into the cosmos to explore in the first place. And so we're still working through that. This is a good opportunity to learn now on a shorter mission. And, you know, if changes are needed to be made to the spacecraft, you know, we have opportunities before Artemis III to make those changes. Well, Kelsey answered the question about if you think we might see something surprising. Rick, do you want to take a follow-up? No. You know, I think, you know, of course, we don't know what we don't know. And there's a reason, you know, I think your question kind of hits at the heart of why we explore, right? I mean, we can send reconnaissance missions to the bottoms of the ocean and to the poles and to Mars and to the outer solar system. And, you know, I like to think that planetary scientists, you know, have, are pretty good at their jobs and pretty good at outlining plans of what they think will, we will expect to see. But we in the science community like to talk about multiple working hypotheses, right? You know, we take all available data and we form these different hypotheses, and we make a plan to go address and buy down those hypotheses. And so do we have guesses about what they're going to see on the far side? Yes. Do I have solid confidence in exactly what they're going to see? Absolutely not. That is what, why we, you know, why we send people out into the cosmos to explore in the first place. And so

05/04/2026 - 20:25:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:50 (Artemis Clock)
You know, I think it's important to remember that, you know, what the crew are going to do tomorrow is the first step in this exploration. And I think it's important to remember that, you know, we don't always know exactly what they're going to see. We have lunar reconnaissance orbiting spacecraft data of the surface. We understand, you know, what it's made out of. We understand the topography, but we don't know what the crew are going to see in these specific illumination conditions from a scientific perspective, and that's exciting. It's part of the exploration mission. It's one of the main charges of the spaceflight agency. Okay, we'll go there. Thank you. Rod Pyle at Astor Magazine. This is drilling in a bit, so I apologize if I'm peeling the onion too much. This is for Kelsey. You know, during Apollo, if you look at interviews with some of the geology backroom guys, they were operating almost entirely from audio, and the video was really of low quality. So now that you've got this spectacular video imagery coming back, do you think you'll have a real-time feedback loop of evolving science targets while they're doing the pass behind the moon? Thank you. My goodness, what a good question. This is going to allow me to nestle into my happy place of science and operations. So the answer to your last question of if we will have targets evolve over time, the answer is, you know, for tomorrow, we're likely not going to be, oh my gosh, scrap the back half of the plan and add in all of these new targets. However, in looking to the future, as Lori commented on right at the beginning, for future missions when we have longer stays, both in orbit and on the lunar surface, that longer-term presence will enable us to flex the plan and enable and empower the crew, you know, of course, within the requisite safety constraints, to audible scientifically about the types of samples and the types of observations they're making. And so tomorrow, the science evaluation room is going to have that future in mind, right? They're going to be listening to what the crew has to say, and they're going to be passing up.

05/04/2026 - 20:27:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:52 (Artemis Clock)
Follow-up questions and, oh my gosh, we heard you notice Grimaldi. That was not one of your targets, but what you just said was amazing. While the viewing attitude still permits, could you provide some additional words? That is absolutely in scope for tomorrow, depending on what we hear from the crew. Your question also gives me a good opportunity to share with you all what tomorrow is going to look like for those of us watching here on Earth. We will see video streamed from the Orion vehicle cameras. So we will kind of see the moon at the distance that, of course, the crew can see it at. We will also, at times during the flyby, go kind of onboard with them the way that we have been experiencing the last few days with that interior camera, although I think I mentioned this yesterday, it's going to be very dark in there, so it will not look as crisp and beautifully lit as a lot of the footage that actually Lori and Rick showed earlier today, but it will give you a sense of being onboard with them. And then you are not going to hear them all the time during the flyby. You will hear several times an hour a status of how they're moving through the lunar targeting plan and giving some descriptions. Those science sit reps, as we're calling them, will not come from the prime crew that are at the windows at the time. It will come from one of the two crew members who are not plugged into their crew tablets and really down and in on the observations. It will be a third person coming to an additional window to make those descriptions. So you'll see the streamed video. You'll hear from them several times an hour. And then as soon as we can, after the flyby ends, our team will be working as a part of the flight control team to get those downlink requests in quickly so we can get all the audio down and get as many images as we can overnight and then throughout the rest of the mission. Hi, Lisa Grossman from Science News. I have two questions for Kelsey. One is, I'm glad to hear that the target list is going to be made public tomorrow. Is that cool user interface thing that you shared an image of earlier going to be made public at any point? We're working on how to archive that.

05/04/2026 - 20:28:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:53 (Artemis Clock)
to the public after the mission. We're not going to be able to do it within the mission, but it is such a big part of lunar science in this mission. And, you know, for those familiar with the Science Mission Directorate, you'll know that, you know, we take very seriously the charter to make every thing, every dataset relevant to lunar science accessible to the public. And we have a charter to do that for this mission within six months post-mission. And so we will be working hard to identify how we can get this tool out to the public, given its criticality for lunar science. And then what phase will the Earth be in during Earthrise?

05/04/2026 - 20:30:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:55 (Artemis Clock)
So what they will see on the Earth is Asia, Africa, and Oceania. And so for anybody listening here who is in Asia, Africa, or Oceania, you can go out and look at the near side of the moon at the exact same time that the crew will be looking at the Earth. For those of us not in those places, we can go out later and still see the same views, but for those in Asia, Africa, and Oceania, know that the crew will be smiling down on you around Earth's rise and Earth's set. Okay. And we'll take one final question and then go ahead and conclude. Marcia. Hi, Marcia Dunn, Associated Press. I'm looking for some numbers, please. What's the latest numbers on the maximum distance that Orion will be from Earth? What's the closest distance to the moon? I think I've heard 4,000 miles. And the total of the illumination for the far side, is it about 20% tomorrow? I forget the numbers. And also, Dr. Young, take off your science hat for a moment and wax poetic about the fact that tomorrow astronauts are going to be flying around the moon for the first time in so long. So I'll take some of your first ones here, Marcia. I'll make sure I get them all, so let me know if I miss some. So a little before 2 p.m. eastern tomorrow, we're going to pass the Apollo 13 distance record by humans, and that record is 248,655 statute miles. That's when we break the record. And then tomorrow evening around 7:07 p.m. eastern, we will reach the farthest distance from Earth at a distance of 252,760 miles.

05/04/2026 - 20:32:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:57 (Artemis Clock)
That's 4,105 miles farther than Apollo 13. You asked about the percent of illumination. My recollection, it's close to like 21%. Yeah, the caveat there, though, is that that is the percent of the far side that is illuminated at closest approach. So when they are closest to the moon, they will see 21% of the far side. On their approach, as you saw in that visual, they will see the full disk. It will include a big section of the near side as well as that section of the far side. Essentially, you know, half of the moon is always illuminated. We'll see that. And so they will see the full 180 degrees. That's illuminated as far as far side. Thanks, Kelsey. Yeah, I think it's at closest approach, it's 4,070 statute miles. 4,070. Yeah. And then do you want to wax poetic? Oh, my gosh, of course, always. I mean, first of all, I will be on console tomorrow, so I will be locked in and fully in operations and execution mode. But, you know, sitting here today, the day before the flyby, you know, I was a kid who loved to play outdoors, and I was a kid who loved to, while playing outdoors, look up at the sky. Being outdoors and exploring the environment around me was a massive part of my childhood. I'm the mom of two young kids, and my youngest is right in the phase now where she looks up at the moon at night and just screams moon every time she sees it. She just stops what she's doing and points up and yells moon. And it really just, I swear, I do not push her to do this. This is a natural instinct. But, you know, I think it goes to show that people all over the world connect with the moon. This is something that every single person on this planet can understand and connect with. Of course, you know, I'm focused on my kids in my house, but I know that people all over the world have their own sense of connection with the moon. Specifically, also, we will get an eclipse tomorrow, and I think everybody on Earth or a lot of people on Earth

05/04/2026 - 20:33:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:58 (Artemis Clock)
have connections to partial or full solar eclipses. I'm wearing my eclipse earrings today. You know, we're approaching the two-year anniversary of the 2024 North American eclipse, which was actually the same day that my daughter was born. And so I am, I have a lot of emotions, to be totally honest with you, wrapped up in this mission and the specific timing of this mission. And I think my overwhelming takeaway is just, yes, I'm a geologist and a planetary scientist, and I have worked with this group for so long, and I know that the data we will get back will inspire the next generation of scientists and explorers, but it will also bring the moon closer and unite all of us where we can have this tangible touchpoint to the moon and what the crew are going to be doing tomorrow. And so as a scientist and as a mom and as a citizen of this planet, I'm really looking forward to tomorrow. I hope all of you are as well. Well, that's a wonderful way to conclude. I want to thank our participants for being here today. We're going to go ahead and pop up onto the screen a graphic showing all the events for tomorrow. Our special coverage begins at 1 p.m. Eastern and extends into the evening. Thank you for joining us today, and you can follow the latest mission updates on nasa.gov.

05/04/2026 - 20:34:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:00:59 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. Mission elapsed time for the Artemis II flight is 4 days and 58 minutes. This is the Orbit 1 team monitoring all of the systems aboard the Orion spacecraft. The crew aboard the spacecraft is wrapping up the OCS suit DFTO, the Orion crew survival system suit demonstration test. During this test, the crew got into their suits, and two of them got into their seats. This is the first time the crew has gotten suited while in microgravity, and we also pressurized their suits. Integrity Houston, we do have big picture words to pass for you, and we see ourselves coming up on a longer LOS here, so please give us a call when it's good to pass those words on to you.

05/04/2026 - 20:36:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:01 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we're just getting out of suit, so go ahead now. Now is a good time. Okay, I'm gonna roll through this list with you. We have turned off the cam cap 3 because we suspected that you were suitdoffing. We also don't have the HHP camera. We wanted to let you know that at our last check, it was still connected to the encoder, but it looked like it had been bumped. So we don't have that picture, and we want you to check it when you are ready, a.k.a. done with your doff. Automatic cabin leak detection is enabled again. And on your timeline, we have cancelled your burn conference and taken care of preliminary targeting for OTC-3 burn ops from the ground. We want you to continue your suitdoff and your closeout of this procedure and look after yourselves, especially around midday meal. We also want you to know that there will be a data transfer activity for read in the afternoon. It's called Flywheel Excel data transfer. That is deferred for today.

05/04/2026 - 20:36:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:01 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we copy all.

05/04/2026 - 20:37:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:02 (Artemis Clock)
And Jenny, we have one question on Jeremy's seat config. Can you give us the foot pan length extension for entry?

05/04/2026 - 20:37:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:02 (Artemis Clock)
We're checking on that. I'll have it for you in a minute. While I have you, I want you to know that soon we will have some calls up to you to perform, likely on the SIPS, which will get us back into a good vehicle config after souped off. I'll be back in a minute with that setting for Jeremy's seat.

05/04/2026 - 20:37:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:02 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we'll wait on your call for the SIT switches.

05/04/2026 - 20:37:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:02 (Artemis Clock)
Copy, and Jeremy's side position is five, and if you're talking about the CAS extension, that is fully extended, it should read six.

05/04/2026 - 20:38:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:03 (Artemis Clock)
All right, Jenny, he's got that seat configured. Thank you.

05/04/2026 - 20:38:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:03 (Artemis Clock)
Finally, one more for you, Reed. If you did not use mags today, we would like you to save the unused mags.

05/04/2026 - 20:38:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:03 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, three out of four will be saved. Thank you.

05/04/2026 - 20:41:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:06 (Artemis Clock)
Chatenny, I don't know if we lost you yet, just confirm we are go for secondary dump line. We're still with you, Reed, and we're checking.

05/04/2026 - 20:41:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:06 (Artemis Clock)
And just make sure that we still have crew choice for toilet ops.

05/04/2026 - 20:41:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:06 (Artemis Clock)
Affirm, the crew plan is still go for toilet, and we're checking on the secondary line.

05/04/2026 - 20:41:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:06 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity crew, you are go to use the secondary line for dumps.

05/04/2026 - 20:42:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:07 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, sounds good, and we'll reconfigure the cut before we do that. Thanks. Affirmed. Thank you.

05/04/2026 - 20:43:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:08 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control, the spacecraft now less than 50,000 miles away from the moon. Again, we are excited for lunar flyby tomorrow, the first time we've sent humans around the moon in over 50 years. So far today, the crew has completed their OCCS demo. That's the Orion Crew Survival System suit demonstration. The OCCS suits are what the crew wears during launch and reentry for the spacecraft. However, they also have the opportunity to put these on in the event the spacecraft were to be depressurized. Of course, that's not what happened today. This was a test of these suits ahead of future missions.

05/04/2026 - 20:44:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:09 (Artemis Clock)
Everything conducted today helps us prepare for future Artemis missions to the Moon. The crew is currently inside the cabin getting out of those suits, so we are not showing those cameras at this time to allow them some privacy, but they are reconfiguring the cabin following that test.

05/04/2026 - 20:44:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:09 (Artemis Clock)
During that demonstration test, we saw all four crew members get in their suits, have successful suit leak checks and communications checks. Both pilot and commander, Commander Reid Wiseman and Pilot Victor Glover, were able to get into their seats.

05/04/2026 - 20:45:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:10 (Artemis Clock)
And again, they are now reconfiguring the cabin and taking down the portions of the seats that they had added to help with this task.

05/04/2026 - 20:45:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:10 (Artemis Clock)
The crew will soon be moving into their midday meal period and then later this afternoon having the OTC-3 burn, that's Outbound Trajectory Correction 3. We did cancel OTCs 1 and 2. These small outbound trajectory correction burns help keep us on the proper trajectory for our lunar flyby and our return to Earth. The team does intend to execute today's Flyby, or Outbound Trajectory Correction 3 burn. These are small burns using the Reaction Control System thrusters on Orion.

05/04/2026 - 20:52:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:17 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity crew, Houston, we have a couple of items to discuss with you again before this LOS.

05/04/2026 - 20:53:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:18 (Artemis Clock)
Hey Christina, a couple of vehicle things for you to start. First of all, we want you to be aware that we need to increase the fan speed higher because our cabin pressure is lower. We're trying to get that cleaned up this afternoon, but we're not quite there yet, so more on that later. We also have a crew procedure that we will need you to execute, and it is the suit DOFF vehicle config procedure, which is 22.2.102. This is steps 1 through 7 to get the vehicle back in a good config following being suited.

05/04/2026 - 20:53:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:18 (Artemis Clock)
We need you to stop the HHP camera feed, please. We do not see it, but we need to stop it for bandwidth reasons. We want to tell Reed that his PCD-1 is go for email use. We also can tell you that we have good targets onboard for OTC-3. It's looking like a 10.1 foot per second burn. And then finally, your flight director will be ready to speak with you for Reed's flight director conference coming up shortly.

05/04/2026 - 20:55:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:20 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Jenny, copy the fan speed thing, but no action for us on that. Suit doc vehicle config steps one through seven. We will stop the HHP camera stream. Read is go for, actually that's complete. Read is go for email on SPCD1, and we'll be ready to talk to Jeff. We understand we will be suit drying per the suit doc procedure as well. Please confirm. Affirm, that is a good readback on all, and we agree on the suit procedure. Thank you, Christina.

05/04/2026 - 20:59:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:24 (Artemis Clock)
Can you still hear me okay? Great.

05/04/2026 - 21:02:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:27 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis mission control here with an MET four days, one hour, and 24 minutes into the Artemis 2 flight. The crew has wrapped up their OCS suit demo. That was the Orion crew survival system suit demonstration, and are moving into their midday meal timeframe. Later today, we'll have the OTC3 burn. That's the outbound trajectory correction 3 burn. This is scheduled for 10:03 p.m. Central Time, and we are now expecting this to be a 10.1 foot per second burn. I'm joined today by OCS project lead Dustin Gohmert. Dustin, thanks for joining me. Oh, thank you for having me. So this is, tell me about your role. Well, I'm the OCS project manager, system manager, whatever role you need me to be, but I kind of have them all. And so our team is in charge of the OCS, the Orion crew survival system suits that are on Artemis 2 right now. And we saw a test of those today. So can you tell me about those Orion crew survival system suits, OCS suits? We have called them both things all day long. Can you tell me about those and what makes them unique? Well, the thing that makes them different than anything we've done before is their long duration survival capability. And so these suits were very specifically designed such that if something were to happen to the crew on, en route to the moon or while in lunar orbit, they could survive in them for up to six days. And so it's a pretty unique capability to have that where your environment, your home, your personal atmosphere is just bigger than your body, and they still provide the functions for you to keep being human and doing all the things you need as a human while in this environment. And today was not the first time that this crew has suited up. Obviously, they wore these on launch day, but what other kind of tests were run here on the ground in these suits, either with or without the crew? Quite a few. So we spent a good, I would say, almost two years doing certification testing of this and the better part of a decade in design and tweaks of them.

05/04/2026 - 21:03:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:28 (Artemis Clock)
to get to the point we are today. And the crew, you know, have spent almost two years training in the suits. They get custom fit for each one. Every person is measured, every joint of their body down to even individual finger segments almost are measured for the crew. And so we have them very finely tuned and finely trained for activities that they would do in these suits. The thing we can't do in these suits on the ground is truly understand how they behave in microgravity. And that was one of the things we were after here today. Yeah. What about microgravity makes it easier or more difficult in some ways to test these suits, or even just being in the Orion capsule. One minute as we're hearing some comms from the crew.

05/04/2026 - 21:03:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:28 (Artemis Clock)
And we are expecting a loss of signal with the Orion crew, and I'm so sorry to interrupt you, but as we were saying, being in the Orion cabin and being in microgravity can make things more or less difficult in these suits. So what are some of those fine difficulties?

05/04/2026 - 21:03:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:28 (Artemis Clock)
Well, in all honesty, that was some of the things we were looking to learn today. The key difference from what we can test on the ground is that no matter what we do here, you have gravity biasing you. And so even if we were to go, say, to the neutral buoyancy lab and weigh out the suits so it was effectively weightless,

05/04/2026 - 21:04:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:29 (Artemis Clock)
The body inside is still weighing down with gravity, and so that will naturally shift you in one direction or the other inside the suit. Maybe your head goes up, or your head goes down, or you go forward, or you go back. On ground, we test them in every possible axis. We turn them on their belly, on their back, on their side, and we try to get every possible fitment.

05/04/2026 - 21:05:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:30 (Artemis Clock)
At the end of the day, you still don't fully know. And so this test, one of the things we're looking to get out of it is, how do you truly fit inside that suit as we predicted in microgravity to give us that confirmation? Do your elbow joints still align? Does your wrist joint still align? Does your head still fit in the right position that allows you to do all the motions that they've been trained to do? And so we're looking forward to following up with the crew after this test to learn a little bit about what they experienced and take those notes and help refine it for the next missions. Well, it was very interesting to see them in the cabin suited up today. And of course, we'll see this again for splashdown day. So thank you so much for joining us, Dustin. We really appreciate it. Oh, thank you. It's a pleasure to be here.

05/04/2026 - 21:20:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:45 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. You're looking at a visualization of Orion and its current configuration as it flies toward the moon. We are now just 48,722 miles away from the moon and 226,700 miles away from Earth. You can track Artemis and track Orion for yourself at any time by visiting NASA.gov slash Track Artemis. Tomorrow is a big day for the mission as we will have the lunar flyby with about six hours for the crew to be taking photos, making observations, and annotations of what they see as they pass the moon. The first humans to do so in over 50 years.

05/04/2026 - 21:20:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:45 (Artemis Clock)
Of course we'll be live for it all, so we look forward to you joining us. One of those milestones that we'll see is them surpassing the greatest distance ever achieved by humans, that was set by the Apollo 13 crew. We expect that to occur in 17 hours and 38 minutes, so don't miss it.

05/04/2026 - 21:21:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:46 (Artemis Clock)
We are currently in a forward link LOS, or loss of signal, with the crew. These are tracked as we fly this mission. We are using the Deep Space Network at this time. They are far enough away from the Earth that we need to rely on this network, rather than our usual tracking data relay satellite systems that you see us use with the International Space Station. But we are aware and track all of these moments when we are loss of signal with the crew. However, we still have data from them. So if they needed to, they could call down to us here in Mission Control.

05/04/2026 - 21:22:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:47 (Artemis Clock)
And we expect to get that forward link acquisition of signal back in about 37 minutes.

05/04/2026 - 21:22:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:47 (Artemis Clock)
The crew is currently in their midday meal. They previously executed the Orion crew survival system demonstration. This involved all crew members getting in those orange suits you saw them in during the launch. This is also what they'll wear during their return to Earth. Those suits could help them survive a depressurization event in the event that were to occur on the spacecraft. Of course, today was just a test, but that would give them a breathing environment for about six days.

05/04/2026 - 21:23:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:01:48 (Artemis Clock)
At 10:03 p.m. Central time, we are expecting the outbound trajectory correction burn three. We did cancel the first of these two trajectory correction burns. These are small maneuvers using the reaction control system thrusters on the spacecraft that help us fine tune our trajectory around the moon and on our way back home to Earth. The team will execute the OTC 3 burn tonight. We expect that to be a 10.1 foot-per-second burn.

05/04/2026 - 21:49:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:14 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control here at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, MET four hours, four days, one hour, and 52 minutes into the flight of Artemis II.

05/04/2026 - 21:50:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:15 (Artemis Clock)
Correction, we are four days, two hours, and 14 minutes into the flight of Artemis II. We are in a forward link LOS, meaning we are out of communication with the crew from the ground side. These are tracked and the team monitors them and makes sure to call up anything to the crew just before we go into them and let them know that we won't be able to communicate with them for this time period. We expect to regain communications with them in under 10 minutes.

05/04/2026 - 21:59:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:24 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, after the LOS, how do you hear?

05/04/2026 - 22:00:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:25 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity, we have you the same. Please execute procedure 2.1.0 Cabin leak suspected.

05/04/2026 - 22:00:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:25 (Artemis Clock)
We need to get the cabin pressure control to maintenance. This will perform a cabin O2 introduction.

05/04/2026 - 22:00:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:25 (Artemis Clock)
Good words.

05/04/2026 - 22:01:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:26 (Artemis Clock)
No, it does not. Cabin pressure is stable, but we need you to perform this procedure to get cabin pressure control to maintenance.

05/04/2026 - 22:01:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:26 (Artemis Clock)
Copy.

05/04/2026 - 22:01:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:26 (Artemis Clock)
We're here for whatever you need.

05/04/2026 - 22:02:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:27 (Artemis Clock)
Let's perform step three of this procedure, cabin leak suspected. Step three.

05/04/2026 - 22:02:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:27 (Artemis Clock)
Good rates.

05/04/2026 - 22:03:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:28 (Artemis Clock)
Affirm.

05/04/2026 - 22:03:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:28 (Artemis Clock)
Copy, that's a good config. Thank you, Reed.

05/04/2026 - 22:04:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:29 (Artemis Clock)
Flight integrity crew, I am now ready to pass you big picture words on what happened.

05/04/2026 - 22:05:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:30 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. We have reestablished communications with the crew. We did go into an LOS on our forward link. That was a planned and tracked LOS. And then we also...

05/04/2026 - 22:06:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:31 (Artemis Clock)
We experienced an LOS on the return link, the link where the crew is able to communicate with us. We have since done a string swap, sent that up, and we have communication with the crew that we're working to get back into the broadcast. The crew also received a cabin leak. What happened here to the LOS is that when you went to radhab in the suit drying procedure, we went to a suit state with a lower cabin fan speed. This caused a little shift in the outlet pressure of the cabin fan where that pressure sensor is, and it registered a pressure change. So we got that warning cabin leak suspected in alarm. This moded the cabin pressure mode to idle, which meant that we stopped O2 introduction into the cabin. We needed to mode back to maintenance to regain O2 introduction back into the cabin.

05/04/2026 - 22:07:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:32 (Artemis Clock)
Copy, and I see what you see about the procedure. We just wanted to make sure we called you into that. Step three was the important part there. Second of all, we had an unexpected return link LOS when we transitioned to DSN Madrid. We had good luck, but we weren't getting any data.

05/04/2026 - 22:07:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:32 (Artemis Clock)
When we got forward link in our INCO center command for a string swap, which was successful, we are now on string 1 for S-band.

05/04/2026 - 22:07:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:32 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, and we are still looking at what happened with S-band string 2. We don't know yet, and that's all I have for you. Thanks, guys.

05/04/2026 - 22:08:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:33 (Artemis Clock)
Sounds great. Thank you, Reed.

05/04/2026 - 22:09:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:34 (Artemis Clock)
Again, we are working on getting the crew audio back into the broadcast, but you heard CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons, CSA astronaut and Artemis II backup, communicating with the crew, some of our recent changes on the spacecraft. As we went into the LOS with the crew, that loss of signal which we were expecting, we also noticed a cabin fan change, which caused a cabin leak suspect warning. There was no cabin leak. We needed to mode back to a maintenance option and reintroduce oxygen into the cabin. You also heard Gibbons explain that when we transitioned on the Deep Space Network to the Madrid site that we ended up losing the crew's communications as well, that we had a good lock on the spacecraft, but we just weren't receiving their data. Our INCO flight controller conducted a string swap to regain that data. We now have good data and communications back with the crew.

05/04/2026 - 22:09:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:34 (Artemis Clock)
You'll also be noticing more people filtering into the flight control room; the Orbit 1 team is handing over to the Orbit 2 team.

05/04/2026 - 22:11:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:36 (Artemis Clock)
On your screen, you can see Capcom Jenny Gibbons handing over the console to Mark Reagan. That's the voice you'll hear throughout the orbit to shift with the crew. One of the major milestones coming up for tonight will be the OTC-3 burn. That's Outbound Trajectory Correction 3. We execute these small burns using the Reaction Control System thrusters on the spacecraft to help us refine our trajectory as we begin to fly around the moon tomorrow and come home, a splashdown in the Pacific on flight day 10.

05/04/2026 - 22:12:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:37 (Artemis Clock)
While we were in that LOS with the crew they were in their midday meal and some of the options they had today include chicken noodle soup, chicken with peanut sauce, spicy green beans, mashed potatoes, roasted turkey, rice, tomatoes and artichokes, spaghetti with meat sauce, vegetable casserole, sweet and savory kale, shrimp curry with rice, and a personal favorite, macaroni and cheese.

05/04/2026 - 22:12:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:37 (Artemis Clock)
I cannot omit that there was also a cosmic brownie as a dessert option.

05/04/2026 - 22:24:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:49 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, no action on the enabled prop cautions on the board.

05/04/2026 - 22:24:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:49 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity copies. Thanks.

05/04/2026 - 22:26:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:51 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, for the enabled caution, these prop cautions are because we are manually pressurizing that branch for upcoming OTC-3. We're taking a closer look at them. No action for you.

05/04/2026 - 22:26:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:51 (Artemis Clock)
And ready copies, thanks.

05/04/2026 - 22:27:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:52 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. We are now four days, two hours, and 51 minutes into the flight of Artemis 2. Our crew today woke up at 11:05 a.m. Central Time. They stepped into their post-sleep period, and notably, Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen received his gold astronaut pin, meaning he is now a flown astronaut.

05/04/2026 - 22:28:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:53 (Artemis Clock)
The first half of the crew's day has been spent in the OCS suit demo. That stands for Orion Crew Survival System suit. During that time, the crew all got into their orange suits that you saw during launch day and that they will wear again on the return day. The crew can ingress these suits if there were to be a depressurization event in the spacecraft. Obviously, that is not what we were...

05/04/2026 - 22:28:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:53 (Artemis Clock)
expecting or doing today, this was only a test for the crew to see how it would be to put on their spacesuits in that sort of environment. Two of the crew were instructed to get into their suits rapidly and the other two crew members were instructed to get into their suits at a regular pace.

05/04/2026 - 22:28:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:53 (Artemis Clock)
After that, we had two of our crew members ingress, or get into, their seats as if they were preparing for return. We also pressurized the suits.

05/04/2026 - 22:29:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:54 (Artemis Clock)
Again, this is a flight test, and every day is an opportunity to test a different system aboard the spacecraft. Coming up this evening, we have the OTC-3 burn. That is the outbound trajectory three burn, and we'll continue to refine our path around the moon and back home.

05/04/2026 - 22:29:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:54 (Artemis Clock)
Orion is now 46,395 miles away from the moon, 228,329 miles away from Earth. That number continuing to increase while our distance from the moon continues to decrease. Scheduling.

05/04/2026 - 22:29:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:54 (Artemis Clock)
with our lunar flyby scheduled for tomorrow.

05/04/2026 - 22:30:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:02:55 (Artemis Clock)
With Orbit 1 handover here in Mission Control being handed over to the Orbit 2 team, that'll also do it for us, or for me, here in Mission Control Houston. I will be handing over the public affairs console to my friend and colleague, Ana Schneider. We will continue our 24/7 coverage on NASA's YouTube all the way until the crew is splashed down and safely recovered. So don't go anywhere. Ana will be joining you shortly.

05/04/2026 - 22:37:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:02 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity on one for winter viewing.

05/04/2026 - 22:37:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:02 (Artemis Clock)
Go ahead Reed for a lunar view, and for your info you came down on two.

05/04/2026 - 22:38:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:03 (Artemis Clock)
All right, Jenny, the moon is decidedly large out the window today. We can see all of Apollo, the, I'm sorry, all of Oriental, angular ring. We can see, I'm 99% sure, Ohm, CP Razo very easily, and just getting over, can't quite pick up Vablov yet, but that far side that is right on the limb is extremely mountainous. Tried to get some pictures, but it's a high grazing angle. But it's pretty awesome to just look out and see all of these sites, and it's bright, but very visible with the naked eye. Still primarily seeing whites, grays, maybe I could convince myself on the far side there's some just hues of brown, very light, very, very faint, but it's a great view. It's beautiful. And on the near side, Erastarchus is by far the most prominent feature. It is really just glowing bright right now.

05/04/2026 - 22:39:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:04 (Artemis Clock)
That's beautiful, Reed. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.

05/04/2026 - 22:39:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:04 (Artemis Clock)
And for the science team, Pyrozo and Aristarchus have the same albedo level right now. They're the same level of brightness. And then looking down, Copernicus is just a little bit dimmer, but it's close.

05/04/2026 - 22:39:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:04 (Artemis Clock)
Science is loving it, as expected. Thanks, Reed. While I'm talking to you guys, I have a topic on burn monitor for Jeremy.

05/04/2026 - 22:39:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:04 (Artemis Clock)
He'll call you back in about five minutes. Sound good, no rush.

05/04/2026 - 22:41:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:06 (Artemis Clock)
And Houston Integrity, just one other observation: looking at the terminator, it's almost a full moon from this perspective, but we've got the terminator on the western edge of the moon, about one oriental diameter from oriental. And just with our plain eyes, you can really start to see topography. There is elevation on the moon, not just variation in color. And that already makes the moon look wildly different.

05/04/2026 - 22:41:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:06 (Artemis Clock)
You have a lot of people looking forward to tomorrow. Thank you so much.

05/04/2026 - 22:42:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:07 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. The orbit two team of flight controllers has recently come on console and they are being led by flight director Diane Daly. And they have handed over from the orbit one team of flight controllers and we just heard some communication down from the crew, specifically NASA astronaut Reid Wiseman and Victor Glover, as they were making some observations of the moon as they continue to close in on their distance between the Orion spacecraft and the moon. Currently, they are about 45,000 miles from the moon, again making some observations about the basins and craters that they are seeing as they continue to close that distance with, of course, the lunar flyby and closest approach planned for flight day six, which will be tomorrow, Monday, April 6th. Coming up here in about...

05/04/2026 - 22:43:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:08 (Artemis Clock)
Go ahead.

05/04/2026 - 22:43:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:08 (Artemis Clock)
Just an observation with the D5. Through the optical viewfinder at 400 mils, the moon is crisp, absolutely clear, even with a high grazing angle through the windows. But when we are taking pictures, what we then see in the viewfinder is a bit blurrier than what we can see through the viewfinder. I just find that odd. I would have thought the viewfinder and the sensor would pick up the same data, but you can pass that along to those folks.

05/04/2026 - 22:43:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:08 (Artemis Clock)
All right, we got it. Thanks for the call down.

05/04/2026 - 22:45:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:10 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. Coming up in just under an hour and 20 minutes from now, the outbound trajectory correction three burn will be executed. This burn is expected to be about 18 seconds and it will use the Orion's orbital maneuvering system engine, or OMS engine, to ensure the spacecraft stays on target for its journey around the moon. There were two previous outbound trajectory correction burns earlier during the mission that were canceled as it was determined that those burns were not needed, but they will be executing this outbound trajectory three burn coming up here shortly.

05/04/2026 - 22:52:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:17 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity, we're ready for those burn monitor words. Hey Jeremy, good afternoon. The first thing is that step 10 is complete. The plus 6 flange heaters are on and prop avionics are configured. And then also, assuming that RHC is not currently deployed, that setup was back on step 7 if you want to refer to that, the bingo for that is TIG minus 45.

05/04/2026 - 22:52:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:17 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Arc C is deployed, and we copy the prop step is complete. Appreciate it. You are welcome. And just a couple of other general awareness things. We are working on updates for the day, and we will be getting that up to you shortly. Also, we also have the lunar targeting package.

05/04/2026 - 22:53:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:18 (Artemis Clock)
Verification steps in message 3.05.05, that should take about 5 minutes to run on each of the PCDs, but we do need to wedge that in somewhere today so that if it doesn't work, we have a little bit of time to troubleshoot before tomorrow.

05/04/2026 - 22:53:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:18 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, I can work on that, actually. So I see it here. It's on this PCD 3 decibels, 0.5 decibels, 0.5.

05/04/2026 - 22:54:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:19 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, that's great, Jeremy. And we'd like to get confirmation that that run through that procedure and get confirmation that all of the remaining working PCDs are functioning with this.

05/04/2026 - 22:54:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:19 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, that would put us at ease as well, so we'll let you know on that shortly. For the burn pad, we noticed that the Delta-V had changed quite a bit, so when did you want to get with us on the burn pad?

05/04/2026 - 22:54:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:19 (Artemis Clock)
We're just planning to do that at the final burn conference, Jeremy.

05/04/2026 - 22:55:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:20 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, that's fine. Just confirm the latest version that we're going to be referencing in that burn conference is UTC ground generation 95 slash fourteen hundred hours.

05/04/2026 - 22:55:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:20 (Artemis Clock)
Yes, Jeremy, that's correct. And just for context, the manual piloting is what changed that a little bit, the total delta-V.

05/04/2026 - 22:55:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:20 (Artemis Clock)
Well, we'll take that as a compliment. I wouldn't have meant it any other way.

05/04/2026 - 22:57:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:22 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. You're currently seeing a live view inside Mission Control here. We were hearing some communication up to the crew, and the individual responsible for communicating directly with the crew is the Capcom or Capsule Communicator, who is on the left-hand side of your screen. We do. Stand by. We're looking for it now.

05/04/2026 - 22:57:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:22 (Artemis Clock)
The CAPCOM currently on console as part of the Orbit 2 team is Mark Reagan, and you can see him there in the bottom left-hand corner of your screen, and he is sitting next to the Orbit 2 flight director, who is in the upper right-hand corner of your screen. The flight director on console is Diane Daly.

05/04/2026 - 22:58:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:23 (Artemis Clock)
The crew has been discussing a few different activities that they're working through. One of those is verifying that they have the final lunar targeting package available on their PCDs or portable computing devices, which are basically tablets, that they're able to reference the various procedures and timelines that they're following throughout their mission.

05/04/2026 - 22:58:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:23 (Artemis Clock)
They were also discussing an upcoming burn conference. So they will have a conference directly with the flight director and the flight control team here in Mission Control Houston ahead of that outbound trajectory correction burn. That final burn conference is scheduled to take place in about 20 minutes from now.

05/04/2026 - 23:00:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:25 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston for the alt PCD power cable.

05/04/2026 - 23:00:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:25 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, Jeremy, you can find that in E-Locker bag number 10 with the brown label.

05/04/2026 - 23:00:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:25 (Artemis Clock)
And the Ziploc bag is called 15V PCD power cable.

05/04/2026 - 23:00:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:25 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, copy that. Thank you, Mark. Yep, you bet.

05/04/2026 - 23:01:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:26 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity for timeline. Go ahead.

05/04/2026 - 23:02:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:27 (Artemis Clock)
Hey Mark, question about an activity depress acoustic monitoring on my timeline at 02:00 today. I believe since we had aborted the acoustic monitoring the 24 hour yesterday, I didn't see an activity to start this acoustic monitoring.

05/04/2026 - 23:02:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:27 (Artemis Clock)
Hey Christina, that's gonna be a no-perform today, and I am on the verge of giving you some other timeline deltas here. Copy both. Thank you.

05/04/2026 - 23:04:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:29 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston with some timeline deltas.

05/04/2026 - 23:04:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:29 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, well first of all, this just in, the SM prop helium isolation valves are configured, which is in step 12.

05/04/2026 - 23:04:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:29 (Artemis Clock)
And then for the timeline deltas.

05/04/2026 - 23:05:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:30 (Artemis Clock)
The things that we must perform today are that LTP verification we just talked about a few minutes ago.

05/04/2026 - 23:05:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:30 (Artemis Clock)
OTC-3 burn ops, the toilet maintenance, the post-ox suit DFTO cabin inspect.

05/04/2026 - 23:05:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:30 (Artemis Clock)
PGA readings and the PMC. I'll copy on that.

05/04/2026 - 23:05:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:30 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we copy all that. A couple notes from us. Two out of three of the PCDs for LTP are complete, and they're correct. I'll work on the third one next. We talked as a crew, and we would like to defer today's PMC. We just don't need it.

05/04/2026 - 23:05:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:30 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, copy that.

05/04/2026 - 23:06:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:31 (Artemis Clock)
All right, I've done a list of suggestions that can be deferred, if you would like to.

05/04/2026 - 23:06:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:31 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, let me say it more eloquently than I was about to. Everything else can be deferred, as you guys desire.

05/04/2026 - 23:06:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:31 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, appreciate it. That's great.

05/04/2026 - 23:07:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:32 (Artemis Clock)
Jeremy, sorry, one late add to the must-be-performed. We also need to repower that docking cam today. And then as bandwidth permits, we would love... All right, cool. As bandwidth permits, we would also like to understand your cabin config too, but as bandwidth permits.

05/04/2026 - 23:08:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:33 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, we can set up a little tour for you. I think you're going to be really impressed. I mean, we've done a great job here. Looks good up here. It is better than before. Awesome.

05/04/2026 - 23:12:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:37 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. Again, we were hearing some communication between the crew onboard the Orion spacecraft, which is named Integrity, and the team here in Mission Control. They were discussing some of the upcoming activities on the timeline for the remainder of the crew's day. Earlier today, following crew wake-up, the crew jumped into a OCS suit, Developmental Flight Test Objective. OCS is the Orion Crew Survival System suit, that orange suit you see them wear for dynamic activities including launch. They donned their suits or put them on and performed several different activities wearing those suits, but they were running behind on the timeline a little bit, so they are working to free up some of the remaining activities and defer activities that aren't critical to take place today.

05/04/2026 - 23:13:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:38 (Artemis Clock)
So that is what a majority of that conversation was about. So following the outbound trajectory correction burn, which is scheduled to take place in about 51 minutes from now, again, it's a very small correction to fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft as it makes its final approach and goes around the moon and returns back to Earth. Again, that lunar flyby planned for flight day 6 on Monday, April 6th, and that splashdown will be on Friday, April 10th. Following that burn, they will just have a few remaining activities to be completed for the day, including some standard anomaly gas or EGA readings that they take to measure the gases, such as carbon dioxide, in the crew cabin. They also have some toilet maintenance activities that they complete every day, and then they will have a post-AUX suit developmental flight test objective cabin inspection that they will complete before they head into their pre-sleep period to wrap up flight day 5.

05/04/2026 - 23:16:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:41 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, about three minutes away from the star field maneuvers.

05/04/2026 - 23:17:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:42 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we copy that, Mark, and I've got something for you on lunar targeting package when you're ready. We're ready.

05/04/2026 - 23:17:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:42 (Artemis Clock)
So PCDs 1 and 2, everything worked perfectly. PCD 3, the lunar targeting package, when I double-click on it, it just, it tries to open, goes to the webpage, and then the little in-process circle just keeps going and going. I waited quite a while and it never opened. So then I started the troubleshooting where I created the shortcut and renamed it on the desktop, but I get the same signature when I try to open it. And it's just chewing away with the little satellite going around the moon.

05/04/2026 - 23:18:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:43 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Jeremy, copy. We're chewing on that. We'll get back to you with more words.

05/04/2026 - 23:18:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:43 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, thanks.

05/04/2026 - 23:20:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:45 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. We just heard some communication there between CSA or Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen, currently onboard the Orion spacecraft as it makes its way towards the moon. He is working to verify that the final lunar targeting package, which they are referring to as the LTP, is available and uploaded to each of the crews PCDs, or portable computing devices, basically a tablet that the crew is able to use and reference various procedures during their mission. That lunar targeting package will be the primary tool guiding crew observations during the lunar flyby on flight day 6, which will take place tomorrow on Monday, April 6th. It consists of two key components, the lunar geography review and the lunar targeting plan. The lunar geography review helps astronauts study major lunar features in advance of the flyby and learn how to orient themselves during the flyby while the lunar targeting plan provides a detailed timeline of observation targets, background science context, and specific instructions for imaging and making verbal descriptions.

05/04/2026 - 23:23:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:48 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, you ready for the burn conference, Jeremy?

05/04/2026 - 23:24:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:49 (Artemis Clock)
One minute, please. Roge.

05/04/2026 - 23:26:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:51 (Artemis Clock)
Houston, Integrity is ready for the burn conference. All right, as we discussed earlier, the UTC of ground generation was 95:14 even, and the first delta is delta-V total, which is 10.4.

05/04/2026 - 23:26:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:51 (Artemis Clock)
TGO is nineteen seconds.

05/04/2026 - 23:26:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:51 (Artemis Clock)
Attitude should be, yell pitch roll 312, 315, 75.

05/04/2026 - 23:27:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:52 (Artemis Clock)
And delta-V X, Y, Z should be 4.7, minus 5.3, 7.6. How copy so far?

05/04/2026 - 23:27:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:52 (Artemis Clock)
We copy all.

05/04/2026 - 23:27:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:52 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, no deltas in the burn execution steps, and then finally in the burn notes, one delta, which is that we have already manually pressurized the fuel tank.

05/04/2026 - 23:27:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:52 (Artemis Clock)
to 290 psia and pressurization will still be active during the burn configure segment. The burn will be performed in blowdown.

05/04/2026 - 23:28:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:53 (Artemis Clock)
Copy.

05/04/2026 - 23:28:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:53 (Artemis Clock)
Any questions for us?

05/04/2026 - 23:28:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:53 (Artemis Clock)
Mark, to be sure we understand, you're last, we understand you said it is pressurized now, and that we will be in blowdown. Is that a good read? Yes, that's a good read back.

05/04/2026 - 23:29:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:54 (Artemis Clock)
Hey, Mark, in your first statement, we thought we heard you say it would be pressurized during the burn, which doesn't match our understanding of blowdown, but maybe we either misheard or you said, like, it would be pressurized now but not during the burn. We did pressurize it a couple of hours before TIG, and it will still be active.

05/04/2026 - 23:30:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:55 (Artemis Clock)
Mark, we're scratching our heads a little bit on what you mean about it will still be active and marrying that up with being in blowdown. Our understanding of blowdown is that we would not have an active pressurization, but we would use the existing pressurization.

05/04/2026 - 23:30:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:55 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, sorry, yeah, I've made it more confusing than it had to be. That's a good understanding. The pressurization will still be active during burn CONFIG segment.

05/04/2026 - 23:30:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:55 (Artemis Clock)
And the burn will be performed in blowdown. Does that make more sense?

05/04/2026 - 23:30:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:55 (Artemis Clock)
Thanks, Mark. That makes a lot more sense. So at some point during burn config segment through the start of the burn, the active pressurization will be turned off.

05/04/2026 - 23:31:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:56 (Artemis Clock)
Yes, that'll happen when we transition at T-minus 5 minutes.

05/04/2026 - 23:31:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:56 (Artemis Clock)
Perfect. All understood on board. Thanks for going through that with us. Of course. I also have some troubleshooting steps on that LTP that wasn't working properly on PCD-3 when it's a good time for somebody.

05/04/2026 - 23:32:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:57 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, you can go ahead and send that now, Mark. Okay. You can pull up Procedure 36 Decimal 1 Decimal 3, which is Lunar Targeting Package User Guide, and you can execute step 6 Decimal 1 Decimal 2, which clears the cache, and then go back and try that message 3.05.05 again.

05/04/2026 - 23:32:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:57 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, just give me the procedure. I got it was step 6 decimal 1 decimal 2, but say again the procedure number. It's 36 decimal 1 decimal 3, Lunar Targeting Package User Guide.

05/04/2026 - 23:32:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:57 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, I'll put that work.

05/04/2026 - 23:32:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:57 (Artemis Clock)
All right, thank you.

05/04/2026 - 23:34:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:59 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, confirm TLT and orbguide converged. We're assessing the onboard solution.

05/04/2026 - 23:34:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:59 (Artemis Clock)
They did converge and we are assessing versus the birdpad now. So far so good.

05/04/2026 - 23:34:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:03:59 (Artemis Clock)
Copy.

05/04/2026 - 23:35:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:00 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity confirming your go/no-go for this burn. We are about to put the work. Stand by.

05/04/2026 - 23:36:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:01 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, MCC has polled go for the burn.

05/04/2026 - 23:36:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:01 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity copies.

05/04/2026 - 23:38:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:03 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard confirmation there that the team here in Mission Control has pulled go for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction burn 3. This burn expected to take place in about 26 minutes from now, and it will be an approximately 19-second burn using the auxiliary engines on the Orion spacecraft. There were previously two other outbound trajectory correction burns on flight days 3 and 4 that ended up being canceled as it was determined they were no longer needed due to the accuracy of the translunar injection burn on flight day 2. However, the team decided to go ahead and execute this outbound trajectory correction burn 3 today on flight day 5 to ensure an accurate trajectory as the spacecraft begins to make its way around the moon and back to Earth to minimize further larger trajectory corrections that may be needed on the return journey.

05/04/2026 - 23:40:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:05 (Artemis Clock)
duty and integrity for the LTP.

05/04/2026 - 23:40:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:05 (Artemis Clock)
Go ahead, Jeremy.

05/04/2026 - 23:41:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:06 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, I cleared the cache as per the procedure, then I tried to open the original LTP link.

05/04/2026 - 23:41:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:06 (Artemis Clock)
And I got the same signature as before, so I cleared the cache again, and then I opened the new LTP link that I created myself, and I get the same signature. Okay, back to head scratching here.

05/04/2026 - 23:44:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:09 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, tank pressures are good for the burn.

05/04/2026 - 23:44:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:09 (Artemis Clock)
integrity.

05/04/2026 - 23:46:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:11 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, our email sync is complete. All inboxes are unlocked.

05/04/2026 - 23:47:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:12 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, solar arrays are in position for the burn.

05/04/2026 - 23:47:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:12 (Artemis Clock)
integrity.

05/04/2026 - 23:48:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:13 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. We've heard a couple of call-outs from the ground here in Mission Control ahead of the upcoming Outbound Trajectory Correction 3 burn, which is planned for about 16 minutes from now. One of the first call-outs was in regards to the propellant tank pressurization, confirming that that service module tank pressure is in the proper condition for the upcoming burn, and then also confirming that the solar array wings on the Orion spacecraft are in the correct orientation to support the upcoming burn. Again, this burn is expected to last about 19 seconds using the auxiliary pulse X engines on the Orion spacecraft service module. The flight control position here in Mission Control Houston responsible for the solar array wing specifically in that most recent call-out is MPO, which is the mechanical and power officer. They are responsible for the electrical power generation, the solar arrays, the array rotation mechanisms, and power distribution systems on board the Orion spacecraft.

05/04/2026 - 23:50:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:15 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, maneuver to burn attitude starting in about three minutes.

05/04/2026 - 23:50:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:15 (Artemis Clock)
integrity

05/04/2026 - 23:58:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:23 (Artemis Clock)
Integrator Houston, we're in burn attitude.

05/04/2026 - 23:58:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:23 (Artemis Clock)
Please see the same.

05/04/2026 - 23:58:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:23 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard that confirmation called up to the crew onboard the Orion spacecraft that the spacecraft has maneuvered to the correct burn attitude in preparation for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn scheduled to take place in about five minutes from now.

06/04/2026 - 00:02:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:27 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. You're now seeing a live view of the Orion spacecraft, the exterior of the spacecraft, as we are about two minutes out from the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn. That burn is expected to last about 19 seconds, taking place around 10:03 p.m. Central, 11:03 p.m. Eastern time. This burn will fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft to ensure it stays on target for its journey around the moon and back.

06/04/2026 - 00:03:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:28 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. We are about 30 seconds away from the time of ignition for the outbound trajectory correction burn. That is when the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft service module will begin firing to complete the outbound trajectory correction burn and fine tune its trajectory.

06/04/2026 - 00:03:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:28 (Artemis Clock)
And we have confirmation that that outbound trajectory correction burn is now underway.

06/04/2026 - 00:04:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:29 (Artemis Clock)
And we now have confirmation that that burn has completed. Again, that was an approximately 19-second burn using the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module. That burn completed at 10:03 p.m. Central time, 11:03 p.m. Eastern time, to further fine-tune the Orion spacecraft's trajectory as it continues to make its way around the moon. And it was a good burn. Tagging to Houston, good burn. We are assessing the details.

06/04/2026 - 00:04:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:29 (Artemis Clock)
It is, and we see the same. Thanks, Mark.

06/04/2026 - 00:06:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:31 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity, pending your analysis, we would like to ask you to take over on step 23. We'll handle the RHC and get on with some other activities on our timeline.

06/04/2026 - 00:06:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:31 (Artemis Clock)
All right, you got it.

06/04/2026 - 00:06:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:31 (Artemis Clock)
Thank you. Great to finally do a burn. I know. A nice, beautiful little burn, too. Hey, be advised we are maneuvering for opportunistic science, and you would need to configure your D5 and Z9 cameras for that, like yesterday.

06/04/2026 - 00:07:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:32 (Artemis Clock)
We are tracking and looking forward to it very much. We had a gorgeous view of a very big moon right out of window 2 during that burn. Well, right before the burn, before we maneuvered. It was awesome. And it looks like we'll be back at window 2 for this as well. And also I have another little troubleshooting step for that. Yeah, you're welcome. Another troubleshooting step for that lunar targeting package when someone has a chance to copy.

06/04/2026 - 00:07:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:32 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, send me the troubleshooting steps.

06/04/2026 - 00:08:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:33 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Jeremy, back to that same step 6.1.2, do you still have that procedure that that was in?

06/04/2026 - 00:08:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:33 (Artemis Clock)
I do. Just clearing the cache, and I understand it now. Yeah, this time we're going to, on Media 14, which is the one at the bottom of that step, we are going to change that time range.

06/04/2026 - 00:08:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:33 (Artemis Clock)
to for all time.

06/04/2026 - 00:08:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:33 (Artemis Clock)
And in addition to the cached images and files that you see already checked in that procedure, we're going to check cookies and other data. And then

06/04/2026 - 00:09:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:34 (Artemis Clock)
Clear it, and then back to message 30505 and try again. Copy that, and just so you know, I did all time previously, but I didn't do the cookies and other data, so that's new. So I'll try that. Well, I just did it and I'll see what happens. And then which LTP do you want me to try to open first? The one that was already there originally, or do you want the one that I created the new shortcut for on the desktop? Checking.

06/04/2026 - 00:09:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:34 (Artemis Clock)
Jeremy, try the original shortcut first.

06/04/2026 - 00:10:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:35 (Artemis Clock)
Good work.

06/04/2026 - 00:10:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:35 (Artemis Clock)
Hooray! That fixed it. Alright.

06/04/2026 - 00:10:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:35 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Mark, and I did the other two steps to checking the two one-node actions, and they're both good on this PC now, so we're all set.

06/04/2026 - 00:10:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:35 (Artemis Clock)
That is awesome. Thanks, Jeremy.

06/04/2026 - 00:11:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:36 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. About seven minutes ago, the Orion spacecraft executed the outbound trajectory correction 3 burn.

06/04/2026 - 00:11:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:36 (Artemis Clock)
to fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft as it continues to make its way around the moon with that lunar flyby planned for tomorrow on flight day six. Now that that outbound trajectory correction burn is complete, teams will be maneuvering the Orion spacecraft into an attitude to be able to capture some opportunistic imaging of the moon.

06/04/2026 - 00:15:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:40 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity for Enabled flush caution. Yeah, go ahead.

06/04/2026 - 00:15:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:40 (Artemis Clock)
We just got an enable caution, dump required. All right, we see that as well, and we are about to put a waste water dump in place and get that going shortly.

06/04/2026 - 00:16:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:41 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, sounds good. And do you have the bandwidth for an HHP quick cabin view of the gliss wall for the post-DFTL cleanup? We are checking. And just to make sure we're on the same page, so after this use, stand down from toilet ops until we get that dump.

06/04/2026 - 00:16:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:41 (Artemis Clock)
I'll check on and let you know.

06/04/2026 - 00:16:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:41 (Artemis Clock)
Understood.

06/04/2026 - 00:16:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:41 (Artemis Clock)
Yes, we can take the HHP cam.

06/04/2026 - 00:17:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:42 (Artemis Clock)
And hey Mark, just to be a hundred percent certain, secondary dumps are still okay, correct? Yes, secondary dumps are still okay.

06/04/2026 - 00:26:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:51 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston for toilet maintenance.

06/04/2026 - 00:27:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:52 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, some good news. Since we've had pretty low usage on the toilet, the ox zone changeout is not required, so those steps can be skipped in that today.

06/04/2026 - 00:27:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:52 (Artemis Clock)
Mark, we appreciate it, but that is already done. Okay, copy. We'll schedule accordingly.

06/04/2026 - 00:30:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:55 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We are currently four days, four hours, and 53 minutes into the Artemis 2 mission following a liftoff from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida on April 1st at 5:35 p.m. Central, 6:35 p.m. Eastern time. On your screen, on the left-hand side, you can see a view of the Artemis Real-Time Orbit website, which provides real-time data and telemetry updates from the Orion spacecraft, especially when we don't have live views coming from the cameras on the spacecraft itself. And in the bottom right-hand corner, you can see a view of... Integrity, Houston. We show ourselves in attitude for the opportunistic science, and we'll be there for about the next 15 minutes.

06/04/2026 - 00:31:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:56 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. A few moments ago, you heard a call up to the crew noting that the Orion spacecraft is in attitude.

06/04/2026 - 00:31:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:56 (Artemis Clock)
We are working it now.

06/04/2026 - 00:31:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:56 (Artemis Clock)
So not yet.

06/04/2026 - 00:32:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:57 (Artemis Clock)
The spacecraft is in attitude for the crew to be able to capture some opportunistic science imagery of the moon, looking out of some of the cabin windows of the Orion spacecraft. They were referring to an HHP camera, that's a human health and performance camera inside the Orion spacecraft camera. There are cabin that they are working to turn on, and we should be getting those views here shortly of the crew inside the Orion spacecraft.

06/04/2026 - 00:32:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:57 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, Reed, finally that cleared up and now we have a good image inside the cabin. Okay, we have too many views out the windows right now. We've got the moon out one through four and then Jeremy just spotted Earth out the side hatch window. So we're gonna work on all that, but I just wanted to give you a quick once-over. Nobody ever sees the cabin from this side except for us. So I got the camera over on the side hatch side. You can see the ECLSS wall there.

06/04/2026 - 00:33:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:58 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. Yeah, that's good, Reed. We're seeing that real well.

06/04/2026 - 00:33:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:58 (Artemis Clock)
You're now seeing a live look inside the Orion spacecraft as the crew completes some opportunistic imaging of the moon. It's a bit dark inside the spacecraft because they've turned off the interior lights to provide a better environment to capture some of those images. Mark, if there's anything of interest you guys are looking for, I'll highlight it. Right now I'm highlighting a part of Jeremy that probably doesn't need to be highlighted.

06/04/2026 - 00:33:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:58 (Artemis Clock)
Roger that.

06/04/2026 - 00:34:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:59 (Artemis Clock)
Could we ask for a slow pan of the port wall, the lab and the food warmer area? Haven't really seen much of that yet.

06/04/2026 - 00:34:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:59 (Artemis Clock)
And this is just for curiosity. We're not concerned about anything.

06/04/2026 - 00:34:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:04:59 (Artemis Clock)
There's the food warmer galley area, and maybe you can see the bungee gel there. I don't know if it's too dark or not.

06/04/2026 - 00:35:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:00 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, that's a good view. You see those IT cables just wishing they could grow like they did on space station.

06/04/2026 - 00:35:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:00 (Artemis Clock)
I just spent about 45 minutes tucking all that stuff down and running power cables for the lunar flyby tomorrow, so it looks a lot better than it did two hours ago. That's awesome.

06/04/2026 - 00:36:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:01 (Artemis Clock)
All right, Mark, with that, I'm going to stop the feed, and I'm going to go look at the moon for a minute. All right, copy that. Thank you. We appreciate that extra time.

06/04/2026 - 00:37:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:02 (Artemis Clock)
An integrity prop post-burn reconfig is complete.

06/04/2026 - 00:37:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:02 (Artemis Clock)
Affirmative copies.

06/04/2026 - 00:38:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:03 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. The crew is currently completing some opportunistic lunar science imagery where the Orion spacecraft was maneuvered into an attitude in order to be able to complete that imagery, and there on your screen, you are seeing a live look outside of the Orion spacecraft. This is coming to you from one of the solar array wing cameras. And in the bottom portion of that view, below one of those solar array wings, you can actually see the moon there.

06/04/2026 - 00:38:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:03 (Artemis Clock)
Later today, the Orion spacecraft and its crew will reach another important milestone when it enters the lunar sphere of influence, which is when the gravitational forces of the moon will be stronger than that of Earth.

06/04/2026 - 00:42:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:07 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity for the opportunistic science. The images are complete. The view that we have now, the most striking things are the size of the moon and the detail that we can see with the naked eye. It is almost a full moon. Maybe about 10% on the western limb is in the terminator, and you can really see variations in terrain. There's clearly some large elevation changes on the western edge that's at the terminator area. The view that we have now at the center is Grimaldi. It's almost at center. It's just slightly south of center. And Oriental is not quite an orthogonal view, but we're able to really see into it. And you're starting to be able to differentiate the colors that are... the differences in the gray that are down in there. Like there's a dark gray V on the bottom and then a light gray V on the top in the center of Oriental. And the lighter gray actually matches the rings that are out to the northeast. And the dark gray V in the bottom matches the part of the ring that's very easily visible in the southwest. Also, Grimaldi is the darkest that I can see so far. And then there's one spot that's just to the northwest of Grimaldi that is also very dark. But it really makes Proselaram and Oceanus look lighter. The grays there almost look like looking down on a forest where you can kind of see variations, splotches between light and dark gray. It doesn't look as consistently dark as it does from so far away. And the variation in all that mare, there's a lot of detail in the variation in the dark grays in that mare. And it really stands out now because Aristarchus is so bright in the center of all of that. But again, the biggest things that stand out to me are the size of the moon out the window to the naked eye and the terrain that I can see on the western limb due to the terminator.

06/04/2026 - 00:42:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:07 (Artemis Clock)
I love the Terminator.

06/04/2026 - 00:42:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:07 (Artemis Clock)
That's awesome, Victor. A really good description. It's easy to imagine what you're looking at. Thank you for that.

06/04/2026 - 00:44:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:09 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, heads up, two minute warning till we maneuver back.

06/04/2026 - 00:45:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:10 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control. We just heard some communication there between NASA astronaut Victor Glover, who is the pilot onboard the Orion spacecraft, as the crew is completing some opportunistic science imagery of the moon, and they were providing some of that science description down to the team here in Mission Control Houston.

06/04/2026 - 00:46:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:11 (Artemis Clock)
The crew has about a 15-minute block to be able to complete this opportunistic imaging, so they're towards the tail end of that block, and then the Orion spacecraft, which you can see a live view of it on your screen, will maneuver back into a biased tail-to-sun attitude. This attitude allows the spacecraft to manage thermal constraints and power generation and it's the primary passive or passive-safe flight orientation during transit.

06/04/2026 - 00:46:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:11 (Artemis Clock)
And there you can see that attitude maneuver now taking place to move back into that bias tail descent attitude with the moon in the lower corner of the screen.

06/04/2026 - 00:46:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:11 (Artemis Clock)
but we understand if you can't.

06/04/2026 - 00:46:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:11 (Artemis Clock)
And disregard, we see we're in the maneuver, never mind. Yeah, sorry about that.

06/04/2026 - 00:47:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:12 (Artemis Clock)
Could we make it up to you by getting you a little closer for tomorrow?

06/04/2026 - 00:47:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:12 (Artemis Clock)
Hey, while I have you, the darkness report of Grimaldi was unexpected and was something that has got the scientists excited to hear, so thank you for that one, especially.

06/04/2026 - 00:47:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:12 (Artemis Clock)
You are welcome.

06/04/2026 - 00:48:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:13 (Artemis Clock)
And this is Artemis Mission Control with that opportunistic science imaging block now complete. The Orion spacecraft, which you can see a live view on the left-hand side of your screen, is now maneuvering back to its tail descent attitude or the passive safe attitude, which it typically maintains on its transit to manage thermal and power generation constraints. And then on the right-hand side of your screen, you see a view of the Artemis Real-Time Orbit website, or AROW, which provides a visualization with live data and telemetry coming from the spacecraft.

06/04/2026 - 00:49:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:14 (Artemis Clock)
And so we are currently about 231,000 miles from the Earth, and the crew has about 41,000 miles separating them and the spacecraft from the Moon. The crew onboard the Orion spacecraft is expected to make their lunar close approach and their lunar flyby observation period tomorrow during flight day six.

06/04/2026 - 00:50:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:15 (Artemis Clock)
Mark, I think one of the most interesting things right now is the four of us have looked at this moon our entire lives and the way we are responding to what we are seeing out the window is, it's just like we're a bunch of little kids up here, just we cannot get enough of this. It's amazing. Thank you for the privilege.

06/04/2026 - 00:50:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:15 (Artemis Clock)
Thank you for sharing that special perspective you have with all of us back here.

06/04/2026 - 01:03:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:28 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. You're currently seeing a live view of the exterior of the Orion spacecraft. These views coming to you from the solar array wing cameras. The Orion spacecraft has four solar array wings, sometimes referred to as SAWs, and each of those solar arrays has its own camera. And this view you're seeing here provides a good look of the engines and thrusters that are on the service module of the Orion spacecraft. The crew is currently wrapping up their day. This is the fifth flight day of the Artemis II mission. They will be moving into a private crew conference with the flight director here in Mission Control Houston in about five minutes. Following that private conference, they will enter their pre-sleep period, and during this time, they will perform any hygiene activities that they need to before going to bed, and they will also eat their dinner for the day.

06/04/2026 - 01:04:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:29 (Artemis Clock)
Some of the items on the crew's menu for dinner this evening include cashew chicken curry, pickled beets, vegetable casserole, beef fajita strips, and fish with mango salsa. Ahead of any mission, the assigned crews typically work with the Space Food Systems Laboratory here in Houston, Texas, to taste the variety of space food options available and pick some of the items that they would like to eat during their mission.

06/04/2026 - 01:04:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:29 (Artemis Clock)
The crew often is able to pick some crew preference items, so for example, CSA astronaut Jeremy Hansen has also brought some Canadian-specific items on board, including some maple syrup and maple cream cookies.

06/04/2026 - 01:05:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:30 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, be advised that we're getting a little bit of ratty comm. We've got structure in the way and it's dropped out a couple of times momentarily or briefly. So if you don't get us at once, try, try again.

06/04/2026 - 01:05:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:30 (Artemis Clock)
Copy that, Houston.

06/04/2026 - 01:07:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:32 (Artemis Clock)
And this is Artemis Mission Control. You just heard some communication between the CAPCOM, or Capsule Communicator, here in Mission Control, which for the orbit two shift currently on console is Mark Reagan, and the crew onboard the Orion spacecraft discussing the current communication status between the ground and the spacecraft.

06/04/2026 - 01:08:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:33 (Artemis Clock)
The crew is about to enter into a private conference between them and the flight director.

06/04/2026 - 01:08:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:33 (Artemis Clock)
To round out flight day 5, the crew typically has a private flight director conference at the end of each day, and the flight director currently on console for orbit 2 is Diane Daly.

06/04/2026 - 01:11:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:36 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston for Reed.

06/04/2026 - 01:12:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:37 (Artemis Clock)
Yeah, I understand you temp stowed that snack bag that you prepared earlier today. You are go to double bag that and stow that with the rest of the snack stuff in A1. We're not going to use that, but we want it there because we're going to analyze all of that after you get back. Maybe knowing that a few hours ago would have helped me not finish drinking that snack. Or that, you could do it that way. Okay, and also... The team wants... I did get out two snacks earlier, and one of them I did not put any water in, and I restowed it. I can pull that one out and fill it, and then restow it just for analysis.

06/04/2026 - 01:12:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:37 (Artemis Clock)
Not required. That's good in the config it is. And then also, we have OA2 privatized for your conference, and you guys are welcome to meet Resolute flight over there when you're ready.

06/04/2026 - 01:12:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:37 (Artemis Clock)
Heading over there now.

06/04/2026 - 01:21:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:46 (Artemis Clock)
Houston integrity for wrap-up items.

06/04/2026 - 01:22:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:47 (Artemis Clock)
Go ahead, Christina.

06/04/2026 - 01:22:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:47 (Artemis Clock)
Hey Mark, I have AGA readings when you're ready.

06/04/2026 - 01:22:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:47 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, when we turned on the AGA this time, we did have two alarms. One said for HCN, it was like a read error. I don't remember the exact verbiage. That was transient. It went away after just a couple seconds, and then it read off-scale low. Then we had the expected high oxygen alarm. Other values, CO2 3.1, oxygen...

06/04/2026 - 01:23:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:48 (Artemis Clock)
Twenty-six point six, temperature seventy-five, pressure ten point four five.

06/04/2026 - 01:23:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:48 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, we copy those. Do you have more stuff for us?

06/04/2026 - 01:23:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:48 (Artemis Clock)
And for the docking camera, we will be completing that activity shortly. OK, awesome.

06/04/2026 - 01:23:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:48 (Artemis Clock)
Is that it from you?

06/04/2026 - 01:24:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:49 (Artemis Clock)
And Mark, we were just chatting that we probably owe you a report on NatGeo shot list, and we have been referring to the shot list, and basically, we really just have the cameras out almost at all times. We got the bird today, we got all the suit DFTO, and pretty much every day, we've been catching day in the life items, whether that's meal time or time at the windows observing, and any dynamic operations, and basically kind of the big moments of the day. So we do think we're capturing all those. Let us know if you need more granularity on that, but we are checking the list. We're making sure we get what they'd like and more. Fantastic. Thank you.

06/04/2026 - 01:24:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:49 (Artemis Clock)
That's all we had. Anything from y'all? Yeah, just the one thing. We are about to start that wastewater dump momentarily, and I know it's pre-sweep time, but it will take any observations if you have them.

06/04/2026 - 01:25:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:50 (Artemis Clock)
We're watching right now, and it's a light blizzard with a kind of familiar larger particles and kind of pulsing, chugging. Not a ton of flow right now compared to maybe the higher flow primary dumps or the secondary dumps. But yeah, we're seeing something out there. We're seeing some kind of snowstorm. Okay, copy. Thank you for the observation.

06/04/2026 - 01:25:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:50 (Artemis Clock)
and market pretty much came to a complete stop there, and then there's been a couple little spurts, almost a complete stop right now while I'm talking to you.

06/04/2026 - 01:26:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:51 (Artemis Clock)
Copy, Jeremy.

06/04/2026 - 01:26:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:51 (Artemis Clock)
We're going to keep it configured to dump and see how far we can get this down.

06/04/2026 - 01:26:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:51 (Artemis Clock)
Thank you for the insights.

06/04/2026 - 01:26:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:51 (Artemis Clock)
And if you do need to use the toilet, just give us a call.

06/04/2026 - 01:26:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:51 (Artemis Clock)
Copy and understand. Thanks.

06/04/2026 - 01:28:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:53 (Artemis Clock)
This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We heard some words from the crew on board the Orion spacecraft. Seeing a live view of that spacecraft in the left-hand side of your screen. Specifically calling down was NASA astronaut Christina Cook, who is one of the mission specialists for the Artemis 2 mission. They were providing some final updates for the remaining tasks on their timeline for flight day 5. They provided some AGA or Anomaly Gas Analyzer readings. These readings are provided periodically to provide an update of any trace contaminants and also levels of things such as carbon dioxide in the cabin of the Orion spacecraft. They also provided an update on the docking camera installation. This is another task that is completed pretty regularly, especially ahead of the crew's sleep period coming up. And then they also provided some updates on the imagery capture for activities related to a National Geographic documentary. And then proceed flurries at the window now and slightly increasing just started.

06/04/2026 - 01:28:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:53 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, that's good news. And, Jeremy, we got one go back. If you could tell us where the images are from the day, we have good comm and to downlink that stuff right now.

06/04/2026 - 01:29:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:54 (Artemis Clock)
Okay, you can look on PCD2 for the science photos that we took for the opportunistic science, and that's the only ones we've done so far. We're probably going to add a few more later. Awesome, we'll go look there. Thank you. And if this is it, and I hope it is, good night to you guys. Sleep well.

06/04/2026 - 01:29:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:54 (Artemis Clock)
Good night to you too. We had a great time.

06/04/2026 - 01:29:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:54 (Artemis Clock)
And this is Artemis Mission Control.

06/04/2026 - 01:30:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:55 (Artemis Clock)
The final item that the crew was talking about just now was related to a wastewater dump. Again, this is a daily activity that takes place typically towards the end of the flight day. The universal waste management system, or basically the space toilet onboard the Orion spacecraft, typically vents its contents overboard each day. The crew is now heading into their pre-sleep period, and during this time, they will have the opportunity to eat their dinner and also complete any remainder personal activities for the day to prepare for their upcoming sleep period. They typically have about two and a half hours dedicated for that pre-sleep period, and then the sleep period itself will last about eight and a half hours.

06/04/2026 - 01:32:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:57 (Artemis Clock)
Integrity Houston, no action for you. We're toggling right at that limit. We're going to inhibit that no waste dump required message while we're doing this. Sorry, suppress that message.

06/04/2026 - 01:32:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:05:57 (Artemis Clock)
And this is Artemis Mission Control. There on your screen you can see a live look of the Orion spacecraft as it's currently completing an attitude maneuver following that wastewater dump. These views coming to you from the solar array wing cameras. Again, there are four solar array wings, or SAWs, on the Orion spacecraft which provide power generation. And each of those solar array wings has a camera mounted to it and it provides some of these live views that you've been seeing throughout the mission.

06/04/2026 - 01:38:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:03 (Artemis Clock)
Houston Integrity on one for a 10.2 question. Go ahead.

06/04/2026 - 01:39:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:04 (Artemis Clock)
First on the dump, very slow flurries, and then the docking camera is powered. And then third, when we went down to 10-2, obviously with the pressure change, a lot of our packaging up here expanded pretty heavily. And one that we noticed is the LiOH bags, and we don't know if the LiOH inside those bags is damaged by the pressure delta or not. Let us know if you would like to open up the ziplocks there and take a look. I'm not sure if we have to go into the hermetic seal on that bag or not. Okay, copy the question. We're talking about it.
06/04/2026 - 01:41:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:06:43 (Artemis Clock) | To read the LIO question, nobody seems too concerned about that right now, but it is going to take a little while to talk to the mayor and get a better answer than that. Would you like that called up tonight if we get that tonight, or would you rather just wait and handle it?
06/04/2026 - 01:41:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:06:46 (Artemis Clock) | Here in the morning.
06/04/2026 - 01:41:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:06:50 (Artemis Clock) | And Mark, we can wait. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 01:41:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:06:56 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, copy that.
06/04/2026 - 01:42:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:07:55 (Artemis Clock) | By reaching this milestone, it means that the gravitational forces of the moon are now greater on the Orion spacecraft than that of Earth.
06/04/2026 - 01:43:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:08:54 (Artemis Clock) | Orion spacecraft is about 39,000 miles away from the moon and about 232,000 miles away from the Earth.
06/04/2026 - 01:44:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:09:13 (Artemis Clock) | And Houston Integrity, there's now some photos on PCD3 for downlink PAO flight day 5.
06/04/2026 - 01:44:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:09:18 (Artemis Clock) | Copy that, thank you.
06/04/2026 - 02:02:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:27:15 (Artemis Clock) | Houston Integrity PAO images.
06/04/2026 - 02:02:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:27:21 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead, Christina.
06/04/2026 - 02:02:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:27:39 (Artemis Clock) | Images on TCD2 for PAO downlink.
06/04/2026 - 02:03:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:28:08 (Artemis Clock) | The first thing, and none of this needs to be worked tonight, but just what the people are thinking is, first, we would want to know if you can tell if the seals on the canisters themselves, the Kapton tape seals are damaged or impacted, and then also...
06/04/2026 - 02:03:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:28:14 (Artemis Clock) | We were looking for clarification on whether these were contingency or post-landing LIO.
06/04/2026 - 02:03:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:28:43 (Artemis Clock) | Hey Mark, the ones that we can see that are very puffy are post-landing. Our assumption was that potentially others that might be packaged the same are that way. But the Kapton tape of the canister itself, obviously...
06/04/2026 - 02:04:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:29:01 (Artemis Clock) | the bubble wrap to see, so maybe that's something we could do tomorrow, but understand, no issue with opening the bubble wrap, which has Kapton tape over the Ziploc seal.
06/04/2026 - 02:04:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:29:19 (Artemis Clock) | The bag is opaque, so we aren't able to see through it to determine anything about what's inside.
06/04/2026 - 02:04:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:29:37 (Artemis Clock) | Sometimes if these things are so poofy that they're in your way and you just want to get them stowed, you have a go to vent them and make them their regular size.
06/04/2026 - 02:04:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:29:49 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, I understand. So far not too in the way, but we'll definitely address tomorrow as able around our awesome day of science. Thank you for the answers.
06/04/2026 - 02:04:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:29:55 (Artemis Clock) | You bet. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 02:05:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:30:18 (Artemis Clock) | This is our Artemis mission control in Houston, Texas. Currently on your screen on the left-hand side, you're seeing a live view of the Orion spacecraft. And on the right-hand side, you can see inside Mission Control here in Houston, specifically the CAPCOM or Capsule Communicator console and the flight director console.
06/04/2026 - 02:05:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:30:41 (Artemis Clock) | Current mission controller, the Orbit 2 team of flight controllers being led by flight director Diane Daly, and then the capcom that you are hearing communicating up with the crew is Mark Reagan. The crew is currently in their pre-sleep period. They will remain in this pre-sleep.
06/04/2026 - 02:06:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:31:10 (Artemis Clock) | of time during which the crew has the opportunity to prepare for sleep by completing any hygiene activities and also eating their dinner for the day. On the menu for the crew's dinner this evening are a variety of items, but some of them include beef fajita strips, fish with mango.
06/04/2026 - 02:06:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:31:33 (Artemis Clock) | The food that the crew eats plays a key role in maintaining their health and ensuring they can perform their mission objectives to the best of their abilities. And long before launch, the teams here at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas, began preparing so that the crew has had everything that they need.
06/04/2026 - 02:06:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:31:56 (Artemis Clock) | It started specifically with the Space Food Systems Laboratory, which supports the development and production of space food, menus, packaging and food-related hardware for all NASA programs, including the Artemis program. And the crew also spent time practicing how to use equipment onboard the Orion spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 02:07:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:32:20 (Artemis Clock) | It uses a potable water dispenser to rehydrate their chosen food and drink packages and a briefcase-style food warmer for warming them up. Let's go ahead and take a closer look at how the crew eats in space.
06/04/2026 - 02:07:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:32:48 (Artemis Clock) | My name is Christina Koch and I'm Jeremy Hansen. We're crew members on the Artemis II mission flying around the moon. And when we fly around the moon, of course, we're gonna be taking some food with us. That's right. This is How to Eat in Space.
06/04/2026 - 02:08:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:33:12 (Artemis Clock) | Here we are in what we call our food lab at NASA Johnson Space Center. We come in here quite often to sample space food. The neat thing about the food selection is it is so diverse. Different entrees that you wouldn't imagine can be rehydrated and actually good in space are.
06/04/2026 - 02:08:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:33:28 (Artemis Clock) | completely fair game, and it's pretty awesome. We came in for Artemis to do this. We got about halfway through the first session and we're like, we're not really sure we're going to have time on board to warm this stuff up. We talked a lot about day one. It's a long day. It's hours before we even leave the launch pad on our way to space.
06/04/2026 - 02:08:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:33:52 (Artemis Clock) | where lunch is scheduled. It's midday meal for all four of us. And so those will be great moments, I think, in our mission to have prep some food and sit down or float as a crew and just have a joint meal. That'll be fun.
06/04/2026 - 02:09:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:34:20 (Artemis Clock) | And also where we'll be making all the food for the Artemis missions. Food is a big part for our crew members. They provide the nutrition, the calorie, micronutrient for crew members, but also boosting crew morale. It's very important. There is always a lot of steps, very strict steps for us to follow.
06/04/2026 - 02:09:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:34:44 (Artemis Clock) | requirements, and most important, also need to taste good. The other strategy is always promote the variety because everybody's food preference can be very different. Therefore, the more variety we can have, the better to meet the needs of the astronaut group. They bring out these
06/04/2026 - 02:10:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:35:07 (Artemis Clock) | Oh my gosh, I thought we were having lunch. And then by the end, there's so many space foods. And every time you leave, you're like, I am so full. I am so full, I'm in pain. And you just rate them like, I love this. I don't want to eat it. I'd eat it if you tell me I need it. Because what the Food Lab does is they take all your preferences, but they're also like good parents, and they're like,
06/04/2026 - 02:10:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:35:36 (Artemis Clock) | I'm Wyeth McKinley. I'm a flight controller and a crew instructor for Artemis II. We're here at the Space Vehicle Mockup Facility at Johnson Space Center. We're inside the Orion mockup where we perform crew training for the Artemis II mission.
06/04/2026 - 02:10:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:35:59 (Artemis Clock) | Food and drink that's on Orion is we hydrate. And so crew at our potable water dispenser will fill up their food and drink, and then at that point, you go ahead and pop it into your food warmer. I'm kind of envisioning there's maybe one person putting the stuff in and out, kind of tossing it out to everyone as it's done.
06/04/2026 - 02:12:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:37:08 (Artemis Clock) | That was a look at how the crew eats in space. The crew is currently in their pre-sleep period during which they have the opportunity to eat their dinner and also complete any hygiene activities in preparation for going to sleep. Once they enter that sleep period, it's about an eight and a half hour period of time, and then...
06/04/2026 - 02:12:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:37:32 (Artemis Clock) | We're currently four days, six hours, and 36 minutes into the Artemis 2 mission following a liftoff from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida on April 1st at 5:35 p.m. Central, 6:35 p.m. Eastern, and you are currently seeing a live view of the Orion.
06/04/2026 - 02:13:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:38:00 (Artemis Clock) | The Orion spacecraft did recently enter the lunar sphere of influence. That milestone took place around 11:37 p.m. Central Time, 12:37 a.m. Eastern Time, and it marked the milestone of when...
06/04/2026 - 02:13:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:38:18 (Artemis Clock) | versus of the moon versus that of Earth.
06/04/2026 - 02:20:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:45:58 (Artemis Clock) | Houston for Christina.
06/04/2026 - 02:21:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:46:16 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 02:21:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:46:39 (Artemis Clock) | We are about to terminate the wastewater dump because we have some docking camera objectives happening. We do have enough ullage for one more use, so anytime between this termination here shortly and 9:20.
06/04/2026 - 02:22:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:47:09 (Artemis Clock) | another use or more.
06/04/2026 - 02:22:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:47:33 (Artemis Clock) | Light snowstorm outside. We see the quantity coming down a little bit. And just to make sure I have the time correct, it was 09:20, and that's an MET today, correct? Yes, that's correct.
06/04/2026 - 02:22:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:47:51 (Artemis Clock) | We used the secondary top or the secondary waistline during these docking cam ops.
06/04/2026 - 02:22:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:47:54 (Artemis Clock) | Checking.
06/04/2026 - 02:23:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:48:15 (Artemis Clock) | If we can avoid it before that time, that's great. If you need to use it, you need to use it.
06/04/2026 - 02:23:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:48:21 (Artemis Clock) | Okay.
06/04/2026 - 02:23:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:48:45 (Artemis Clock) | we use the toilet if it is for fecal and not urine.
06/04/2026 - 02:23:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:48:48 (Artemis Clock) | Checking.
06/04/2026 - 02:24:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:49:08 (Artemis Clock) | no constraints on fecal use.
06/04/2026 - 02:24:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:49:43 (Artemis Clock) | near 920, and we'll minimize the secondary wasteups.
06/04/2026 - 02:24:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:49:45 (Artemis Clock) | Copy all. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 02:26:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:51:13 (Artemis Clock) | On your screen on the left-hand side, you can see a live look of the Orion spacecraft as it makes its approach towards the moon, this view coming to you from one of the cameras on the solar array wings. And then on the right-hand side, you can see a view of the Artemis real-time orbit website, which provides updates.
06/04/2026 - 02:26:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:51:36 (Artemis Clock) | NASA.gov slash track Artemis. Currently, the Orion spacecraft is about 233,000 miles away from Earth and about 38,000 miles away from the moon. We just heard some conversations between the crew, specifically NASA astronaut.
06/04/2026 - 02:27:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:52:05 (Artemis Clock) | wastewater dump. These typically take place towards the end of each day and the universal waste management system on board the Orion spacecraft is basically the space toilet, and it
06/04/2026 - 02:27:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:52:34 (Artemis Clock) | The crew is currently in their pre-sleep period. They have a little more than an hour remaining in that pre-sleep period before they enter into their sleep period to round out flight day five. Throughout the day, the crew has completed a variety of activities. They spent most of the first...
06/04/2026 - 02:28:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:53:09 (Artemis Clock) | This launch and reentry. They then worked to get seated and they also completed several different tasks. This developmental flight test objective did end up taking a little bit longer than expected, so they didn't complete all of the objectives. And then they moved into their midday meal, where
06/04/2026 - 02:28:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:53:34 (Artemis Clock) | This ended up being a 17.2 second burn to fine-tune the path of the Orion spacecraft as it continues to make its journey around the moon. This was the first trajectory correction burn that ended up being executed during this mission as the first two outbound trajectory correction burns.
06/04/2026 - 02:28:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:53:51 (Artemis Clock) | Flight days three and four as they were determined to not be needed due to the accuracy of the translunar injection burn or TLI burn which took place on flight day two.
06/04/2026 - 02:29:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:54:39 (Artemis Clock) | some final tasks for the day, and they had a private conference with the flight director here in Mission Control Houston. They typically have a private conference towards the end of every day to go over vehicle status and any other topics or questions that may be on their minds. They then entered their pre-sleep period, which is where they remain now.
06/04/2026 - 02:29:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:06:54:57 (Artemis Clock) | they did officially enter the lunar sphere of influence, that milestone being passed a little under an hour ago at 11:37 p.m. Central Time, 12:37 a.m. Eastern Time.
06/04/2026 - 02:43:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:08:56 (Artemis Clock) | The 400mm lens, it doesn't fit completely with inside the viewfinder.
06/04/2026 - 02:43:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:08:59 (Artemis Clock) | That's a pretty awesome milestone.
06/04/2026 - 02:44:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:09:35 (Artemis Clock) | out the side hatch and the moon out window three, and definitely, by far, the moon is bigger than the Earth.
06/04/2026 - 02:44:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:09:41 (Artemis Clock) | That's such a special perspective. Thank you for sharing that.
06/04/2026 - 02:46:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:11:10 (Artemis Clock) | They did acknowledge entering the lunar sphere of influence. That milestone did take place a little over an hour ago at 11:37 p.m. Central Time, 12:37 a.m. Eastern Time. By passing that milestone, it means the moon's gravity is now exerting more force
06/04/2026 - 02:46:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:11:15 (Artemis Clock) | on the Orion spacecraft and its crew than the Earth's gravity.
06/04/2026 - 02:55:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:20:54 (Artemis Clock) | Houston, Integrity for one more photo.
06/04/2026 - 02:55:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:20:59 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 02:56:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:21:24 (Artemis Clock) | is 6684, which we just took with the 35mm lens, and it's the perfect human-eye perspective of the moon out the window, with the interior of Orion visible. It's a pretty cool picture if you want to share that with the team or with PAO.
06/04/2026 - 02:56:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:21:30 (Artemis Clock) | We'll get that down right away. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 03:16:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:41:13 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We are currently four days, seven hours, and 40 minutes into the Artemis Two mission. The crew is about to enter their sleep period to close out flight day five, and throughout the day, the crew worked on an.
06/04/2026 - 03:16:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:41:38 (Artemis Clock) | The Orion Crew Survival Systems suits are those orange suits that are worn by the crew during dynamic portions of the mission, such as launch and re-entry. And during this demonstration they donned or put on their suits, pressurized them and demonstrated some normal operations.
06/04/2026 - 03:17:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:42:15 (Artemis Clock) | Following the completion of this burn, the Orion spacecraft was maneuvered into an attitude to allow for some opportunistic imaging and science observations of the moon. And then the crew began to wind down for the day and entered their pre-sleep period, which they are currently in and about to enter their pre-sleep period.
06/04/2026 - 03:17:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:42:39 (Artemis Clock) | 12:37 p.m. Central Time, 12:37 a.m. Eastern Time, which means the moon's gravity is now exerting more force on the Orion spacecraft than the Earth's gravity. There on your screen, on the left-hand side, you can see a live view of the Orion spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 03:18:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:43:10 (Artemis Clock) | Track Artemis. The Orion spacecraft and its crew are now about 234,000 miles away from the Earth and about 36,000 miles away from the Moon.
06/04/2026 - 03:18:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:43:33 (Artemis Clock) | It will be an exciting day for the crew and all the teams supporting them here on the ground. This will be when the Orion spacecraft and its crew make its closest approach to the moon and surpass the Apollo 13 distance record. The Orion spacecraft is expected to make its closest approach
06/04/2026 - 03:19:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:44:10 (Artemis Clock) | On its own, the Orion spacecraft will reach its farthest distance from the Earth at a distance of 252,760 miles, which is 4,105 miles farther than Apollo 13 went. In addition to these milestones, there will be an approximately...
06/04/2026 - 03:19:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:44:33 (Artemis Clock) | allotted to allow the crew to make observations about the Moon. This is the lunar flyby observation period and the crew's observations, handheld photography and images from the Orion spacecraft will form the basis for scientific investigations into the moon's geological history, the lunar
06/04/2026 - 03:19:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:44:38 (Artemis Clock) | environment and current processes such as new impacts, and again all of this coming up on flight day six, just around the corner.
06/04/2026 - 03:21:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:46:50 (Artemis Clock) | Houston integrity on one free mill.
06/04/2026 - 03:21:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:46:52 (Artemis Clock) | What do you read?
06/04/2026 - 03:22:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:47:21 (Artemis Clock) | Appreciate all the effort that you all have put into it, and email is working great. Thank you so much. Glad to hear the confirmation of that. You're welcome, sir. Have a great evening.
06/04/2026 - 03:22:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:47:38 (Artemis Clock) | We will, and we are assuming that we can start doing secondary dumps at 9:30 MET. If that changes, please let us know because we do plan to use that capability.
06/04/2026 - 03:23:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:48:02 (Artemis Clock) | Nine-thirty is a good time. No changes to that.
06/04/2026 - 03:23:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:48:13 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, in that case, we're all studying our lunar targeting packages here. You can see the glow in everybody's eyes from the PCDs, and we're gonna head off to slumber here soon. Thanks. Awesome. Sleep well.
06/04/2026 - 03:25:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:50:23 (Artemis Clock) | In the CapCom or capsule communicator here in Mission Control Houston, they were talking about a couple of different topics, including some email access. That access was being worked by the CDH position here in Mission Control. That stands for the Command and Data Handling console, which monitors--
06/04/2026 - 03:25:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:50:47 (Artemis Clock) | the spacecraft's electronic equipment. The crew also mentioned that they were reviewing their lunar targeting package prior to heading into their sleep period. That lunar targeting package is the primary tool that guides crew observations during the lunar flyby, which is planned for Flight Day 6, which...
06/04/2026 - 03:26:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:51:11 (Artemis Clock) | which helps OSIRIS-REx study major lunar features and also how to orient themselves during the flyby, as well as the lunar targeting plan, which provides a detailed timeline of observation targets, along with some background science context and specific instructions for imaging and verbal descriptions.
06/04/2026 - 03:26:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:51:34 (Artemis Clock) | to reinforce the recognition of key lunar features. And while they didn't fly with them, it did support the crew readiness in advance of the mission and the upcoming lunar flyby. The apparent size of the moon will change throughout the flyby. It will appear roughly like a basketball held at arm's length.
06/04/2026 - 03:27:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:52:04 (Artemis Clock) | The closest approach will be at a distance of about 4,070 miles from the surface of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 03:32:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:07:57:22 (Artemis Clock) | On the exterior of the Orion spacecraft, that view pointing down towards the service module, specifically you can see the thrusters at the base of the service module, those auxiliary thrusters, along with the main engine there in the center.
06/04/2026 - 06:09:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:34:47 (Artemis Clock) | And when you fly in space, you change from silver to gold, and so we figured today was a perfect day to honor our friend, Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen, with his flown Astro pin.
06/04/2026 - 06:10:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:35:09 (Artemis Clock) | come to reality for me, so a lot of gratitude for all those people. It's a pretty special experience. Thanks for doing this, guys.
06/04/2026 - 06:10:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:35:14 (Artemis Clock) | Congratulations.
06/04/2026 - 06:10:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:35:40 (Artemis Clock) | We wanted to take a minute to commemorate the holiday that we have. This time of year is something that many religions and many cultures hold dear. It's a time of emotions such as joy as well as
06/04/2026 - 06:11:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:36:16 (Artemis Clock) | A few eggs around the cabin. They were the dehydrated scrambled egg variety, but we're all pretty happy with them.
06/04/2026 - 06:11:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:36:19 (Artemis Clock) | That's wonderful. We'll keep an eye out.
06/04/2026 - 06:11:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:36:29 (Artemis Clock) | Yes, first I wanted to just say happy birthday to my father, Victor Glover Sr., and happy Easter to everyone down there on Earth. With that, I will pass it off to Jeremy.
06/04/2026 - 06:12:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:37:10 (Artemis Clock) | of love, universal love, love yourself and love others. And something for us being up here and looking back at all of you through one tiny window is that just resonates 100% true. And our goal as humanity should be to just follow in that.
06/04/2026 - 06:12:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:37:31 (Artemis Clock) | Send it will serve as well.
06/04/2026 - 06:12:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:37:53 (Artemis Clock) | you've got for us.
06/04/2026 - 06:13:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:38:19 (Artemis Clock) | That's what OCS stands for. Today they will be donning their suits or getting into those suits. Two will be doing so rapidly and two will be doing so at a normal pace. These suits are what the crew members wear during launch and reentry. It's also what would protect them in the event of a depressurization in the space station.
06/04/2026 - 06:13:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:38:25 (Artemis Clock) | Craft.
06/04/2026 - 06:13:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:38:51 (Artemis Clock) | if Orion were to depressurize. Now this is obviously the first time that humans have ever flown aboard Orion, so the first time we've gotten the opportunity to test out these suits. So after they put on the suits, they will pressurize them, and then they will install their seats. They uninstalled their seats following...
06/04/2026 - 06:13:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:38:56 (Artemis Clock) | arrival on in their high Earth orbit.
06/04/2026 - 06:14:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:39:02 (Artemis Clock) | And with these suits being pressurized, that seat install would be a little more difficult.
06/04/2026 - 06:14:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:39:13 (Artemis Clock) | Jenny, we are ready for the position to latch the leg assemblies onto the seat backs for 1 and 2.
06/04/2026 - 06:14:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:39:33 (Artemis Clock) | Position three and seven for both seats.
06/04/2026 - 06:14:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:39:56 (Artemis Clock) | We are in the time of having you all go off board so that we can get into our suits. Just wanted to check in with you on timing or anything else you've noted that you want to share before we get into that.
06/04/2026 - 06:15:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:40:38 (Artemis Clock) | by these as your suit delta pressure, and we're also looking at adjusting the objectives during the first set as well. So we'll continue to talk about that, and in the meantime, you're good to continue.
06/04/2026 - 06:16:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:41:48 (Artemis Clock) | You send integrity EC seat 1 and 2, rapid dawn complete. Copy rapid dawn complete, seats 1 and 2. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 06:17:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:42:14 (Artemis Clock) | psi inside the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 06:17:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:42:35 (Artemis Clock) | to umbilicals, which make another hurdle into moving around the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 06:18:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:43:17 (Artemis Clock) | Again, we are working on getting the crew audio back into the broadcast, but you heard Capcom.
06/04/2026 - 06:18:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:43:23 (Artemis Clock) | Jenny Gibbons, CSA astronaut and Artemis II backup, communicating with the crew some of our recent changes on the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 06:18:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:43:54 (Artemis Clock) | Cabin fan change, which caused a cabin leak suspect warning. There was no cabin leak. We needed to mode back to a maintenance option and reintroduce oxygen into the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 06:19:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:44:19 (Artemis Clock) | angular ring we can see, I'm 99% sure Ohm, CP Raso very easily, and just getting over, can't quite pick up that off yet, but that far side that is right on the limb is extremely mountainous. Try to get some pictures, but it's a high grazing angle.
06/04/2026 - 06:19:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:44:46 (Artemis Clock) | I'm still primarily seeing white scrapes. Maybe I can convince myself on the far side there's some just hues of brown, very light, very, very faint, but it's a great view. It's beautiful. And on the near side, Eratosthenes is by far the most prominent feature. It is --
06/04/2026 - 06:19:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:44:51 (Artemis Clock) | Really just glowing bright right now.
06/04/2026 - 06:19:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:44:57 (Artemis Clock) | That's a beautiful read. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.
06/04/2026 - 06:20:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:45:18 (Artemis Clock) | So, and Aristarchus have the same albedo level right now. They're the same level of brightness. And then looking down, Copernicus is just a little bit dimmer, but it's close.
06/04/2026 - 06:20:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:45:54 (Artemis Clock) | With our plain eyes, you can really start to see topography. There is elevation on the moon, not just variation in color, and that already makes the moon look wildly different.
06/04/2026 - 06:21:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:46:14 (Artemis Clock) | disperse
06/04/2026 - 06:21:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:46:16 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, MCC has polled go for the burn.
06/04/2026 - 06:21:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:46:20 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity copies.
06/04/2026 - 06:22:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:47:03 (Artemis Clock) | other outbound trajectory correction burns on flight days three and four that ended up being canceled as it was determined they were no longer needed due to the accuracy of the trans-lunar injection burn on flight day two. However, the team decided to go ahead and execute this outbound
06/04/2026 - 06:22:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:47:25 (Artemis Clock) | an accurate trajectory as the spacecraft begins to make its way around the moon and back to Earth to minimize further larger trajectory corrections that may be needed on the return journey.
06/04/2026 - 06:22:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:47:45 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, we're in burn attitude.
06/04/2026 - 06:22:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:47:49 (Artemis Clock) | Please see the same.
06/04/2026 - 06:23:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:48:14 (Artemis Clock) | maneuver to the correct burn attitude in preparation for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn scheduled to take place in about five minutes from now.
06/04/2026 - 06:23:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:48:41 (Artemis Clock) | As we are about two minutes out from the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn, that burn is expected to last about 19 seconds, taking place around 10:03 p.m. Central, 11:03 p.m. Eastern time. This burn will fine-tune the trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 06:24:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:49:08 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control. We are about 30 seconds away from the time of ignition for the outbound trajectory correction burn. That is when the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module will begin firing to complete the outbound trajectory correction burn and fine-tune its
06/04/2026 - 06:24:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:49:12 (Artemis Clock) | trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 06:24:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:49:31 (Artemis Clock) | And we have confirmation that that outbound trajectory correction burn is now underway.
06/04/2026 - 06:24:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:49:58 (Artemis Clock) | And we now have confirmation that that burn has completed. Again, that was an approximately 19-second burn using the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module. That burn completed at 10:03 p.m. Central Time, 11:03 p.m. Eastern Time, to further fine-tune the Orion spacecraft's trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 06:25:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:50:17 (Artemis Clock) | Houston, good burn. We are assessing the details.
06/04/2026 - 06:25:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:50:20 (Artemis Clock) | It is, and we see the same. Thanks, Mark.
06/04/2026 - 06:25:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:50:55 (Artemis Clock) | Be nine cameras for that, like yesterday.
06/04/2026 - 06:26:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:51:15 (Artemis Clock) | It was awesome.
06/04/2026 - 06:26:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:51:18 (Artemis Clock) | And it looks like we'll be back at window two for this as well.
06/04/2026 - 06:26:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:51:28 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control. About seven minutes ago, the Orion spacecraft executed the outbound trajectory correction three burn to fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft as it continues to make its way around the moon with that lunar flyby planned for tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 06:26:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:10:51:55 (Artemis Clock) | and attitude to be able to capture some opportunistic imaging of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 07:01:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:26:19 (Artemis Clock) | 11 hours, 25 minutes and counting. We are tracking all of the systems here on the ground, and things continue to perform as expected. We are about 239,000 miles away from the Earth and about 29,000 miles away from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 07:01:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:26:47 (Artemis Clock) | Wrapping up flight day five for them. It was a busy day today working through the detailed flight test objective with the Orion crew survival suits or the OCC suits. The crew worked to unpack them, get into the suits, getting them pressurized, and then demonstrated some normal operations like eating in them, sitting in them, and even taking some medications.
06/04/2026 - 07:02:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:27:30 (Artemis Clock) | With the OTC-3 burn, we executed nominally. And although this is called OTC-3, this was actually the first burn that was performed. The first two, OTC-1 and 2, were actually not needed. And again, these are small adjustments to the trajectory to ensure we stay on the outlined flight path.
06/04/2026 - 07:02:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:27:58 (Artemis Clock) | Bye-bye. Here in Mission Control, as I mentioned, teams continue to monitor the mission on the ground while the crew gets some rest. As you might be aware, during this orbit 3 planning shift, we are in the process of wrapping up flight day 5, meaning we are halfway through the Artemis 2 mission. We'll be flying around the moon in...
06/04/2026 - 07:03:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:28:19 (Artemis Clock) | Ninety-five.
06/04/2026 - 07:03:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:28:41 (Artemis Clock) | Hello, Reed, Victor.
06/04/2026 - 07:03:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:28:47 (Artemis Clock) | Christina and Jeremy, this is Apollo 16 astronaut Charlie Duke. John Young and I landed on the Moon in 1972 in the lunar module we named Orion. I'm glad to see a different kind of Orion helping return humans to the Moon.
06/04/2026 - 07:04:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:29:14 (Artemis Clock) | Our prayer reminds you that we in America and all of the world are cheering you on. Thanks to you and the whole team on the ground for building on our Apollo legacy with Artemis. Godspeed and safe travels home.
06/04/2026 - 07:04:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:29:40 (Artemis Clock) | It's been great working with all of y'all. I'm handing over here to Jam shortly, and this is my last shift here with y'all, so it's been a great pleasure. Y'all are doing awesome and can't wait to see you all back stateside.
06/04/2026 - 07:05:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:30:06 (Artemis Clock) | Switch over to any OE that you want. We can do as many as you want. And then one parting word. If you could please contact Frank Rivio and have him tell my kids to start emailing the other crew members here so that I can at least talk to them, that would be a huge, huge help. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 07:05:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:30:12 (Artemis Clock) | Hey Reed, that's a simple thing. I'll make sure it gets done. Have a good one.
06/04/2026 - 07:05:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:30:23 (Artemis Clock) | Mike, Integrity, com check.
06/04/2026 - 07:05:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:30:29 (Artemis Clock) | Christine, I got you loud and clear. How 'bout me?
06/04/2026 - 07:05:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:30:50 (Artemis Clock) | For all the help and support. For sure. Y'all have been amazing. I've loved every minute of it.
06/04/2026 - 07:06:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:31:18 (Artemis Clock) | We are starting Flight Day 5. The astronauts just woke up at 11:05 a.m. Central Time. Currently, the teams are handing over from the Orbit 3 team to the Orbit 1 team led by Jeff Rattigan here in Mission Control. It's going to be a busy day for the crew with their Aox suit demo
06/04/2026 - 07:06:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:31:40 (Artemis Clock) | 215,000 miles away from our home planet Earth. We are MET, mission elapsed time, three days, 18 hours, and 28 minutes.
06/04/2026 - 07:06:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:31:53 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity crew, we are rolling Orion by twenty degrees to improve optical comm.
06/04/2026 - 07:07:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:32:15 (Artemis Clock) | The crew were from CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons. She is a Canadian Space Agency astronaut and backup Artemis II astronaut. She'll be the voice you hear speaking with the crew from the ground today.
06/04/2026 - 07:07:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:32:35 (Artemis Clock) | better pointing for that optical communications.
06/04/2026 - 07:07:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:32:41 (Artemis Clock) | This OPCOM system allows the team to transmit science data, procedures, flight plans, communications and more from as a link between Orion and mission control.
06/04/2026 - 07:08:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:33:03 (Artemis Clock) | Come to come on board.
06/04/2026 - 07:08:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:33:06 (Artemis Clock) | Copy Christina, we are on board with you, thank you.
06/04/2026 - 07:08:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:33:26 (Artemis Clock) | View inside the Orion spacecraft, now just 61,919 miles away from the moon, the destination of this flight and where they will arrive for the flyby tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 07:08:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:33:47 (Artemis Clock) | Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen his first flight to space. We are entering flight day five. The crew is still in their post-sleep period and configuring the spacecraft for the day's events.
06/04/2026 - 07:09:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:34:10 (Artemis Clock) | into human immune system functions in a deep space environment. So dry saliva is collected before, during and after the mission. The crew blots it onto special paper in pocket-sized booklets.
06/04/2026 - 07:09:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:34:15 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 07:10:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:35:00 (Artemis Clock) | As we've seen throughout the mission, the crew will call down when they need to find something or when they need to store something. Everything aboard the spacecraft is tracked so it can be easily accessible or easily stowed and found later.
06/04/2026 - 07:10:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:35:32 (Artemis Clock) | We greet you Sunday by honoring our crew mate, Jeremy Hansen. We have a long-standing tradition in the astronaut office of the traditional astronaut pin, and when you fly in space, you change from silver to gold, and so we figured today was the perfect day to honor our friend.
06/04/2026 - 07:10:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:35:37 (Artemis Clock) | Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen with his flown AstroPin.
06/04/2026 - 07:10:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:35:59 (Artemis Clock) | in the office, this tradition come to reality for me, so a lot of gratitude for all those people. It's a pretty special experience. Thanks for doing this, guys.
06/04/2026 - 07:11:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:36:02 (Artemis Clock) | Congratulations.
06/04/2026 - 07:11:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:36:37 (Artemis Clock) | It's a time of emotions such as joy, as well as...
06/04/2026 - 07:11:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:36:58 (Artemis Clock) | to very sweet little girls go try to find them. So, to commemorate that on board, we did hide a few eggs around the cabin. They were the dehydrated scrambled egg variety, but we're all pretty happy with them.
06/04/2026 - 07:12:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:37:03 (Artemis Clock) | That's wonderful. We'll keep an eye out.
06/04/2026 - 07:12:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:37:24 (Artemis Clock) | to my father, Victor Glover Sr., and happy Easter to everyone down there on Earth. And with that, I will pass it off to Jared.
06/04/2026 - 07:13:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:38:16 (Artemis Clock) | There were many examples in the past, but that's one example of love that we can just all follow in those footsteps and it will serve us well.
06/04/2026 - 07:13:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:38:37 (Artemis Clock) | And with that, Houston, we are eager and ready to start our exciting day of SUTOP with you all, and we don't have any specific comments yet, but ready to hear what you've got for us.
06/04/2026 - 07:14:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:39:09 (Artemis Clock) | The crew is preparing the spacecraft for the AOX suit demo, Orion Crew Survival System suit. That's what AOX stands for. Today they will be donning their suits, or getting into those suits. Two will be doing so rapidly, and two will be doing so at a normal pace. These suits are what the crew members wear
06/04/2026 - 07:14:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:39:16 (Artemis Clock) | during launch and re-entry, it's also what would protect them in the event of a depressurization in the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 07:14:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:39:53 (Artemis Clock) | And then they will install their seats. They uninstall their seats following arrival on in their high Earth orbit.
06/04/2026 - 07:14:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:39:59 (Artemis Clock) | And with these suits being pressurized, that seat install would be a little more difficult.
06/04/2026 - 07:15:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:40:05 (Artemis Clock) | Jenny, we are ready for the position to latch the leg assemblies onto the seat backs for one and two.
06/04/2026 - 07:15:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:40:28 (Artemis Clock) | we'll be putting the pit pins in positions three and seven for both seats.
06/04/2026 - 07:15:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:40:55 (Artemis Clock) | or anything else you've noted that you wanna share before we get into that.
06/04/2026 - 07:16:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:41:14 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks for letting us know, Christina. That syncs with everything that we've been tracking. We just want to update you that we don't believe that we will do any objectives at the lower pressure, so at 3.7 psiV, as your suit delta.
06/04/2026 - 07:16:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:41:35 (Artemis Clock) | So we'll continue to talk about that. And in the meantime, you're good to continue.
06/04/2026 - 07:17:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:42:41 (Artemis Clock) | Houston Integrity, EC-22, rapid dawn complete. Copy, rapid dawn complete, seats one and two. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 07:18:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:43:02 (Artemis Clock) | As part of this test, we have vented some of the cabin pressure overboard. It is now 11.0 psi inside the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 07:18:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:43:23 (Artemis Clock) | They are obviously also connected to umbilicals, which make another hurdle into moving around the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 07:18:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:43:50 (Artemis Clock) | OTCs 1 and 2, these small outbound trajectory correction burns help keep us on the proper trajectory for our lunar flyby and our return to Earth. Integrity, we have you the same. Please execute procedure 2, decimal 1.
06/04/2026 - 07:19:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:44:17 (Artemis Clock) | This will perform a CAP and O2 introduction. Again, we are working on getting the crew audio back into the broadcast, but you heard CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons, CSA astronaut and Artemis II backup, communicating with the crew some of our recent
06/04/2026 - 07:19:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:44:21 (Artemis Clock) | changes on the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 07:19:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:44:45 (Artemis Clock) | We also noticed a cabin fan change which caused a cabin leak suspect warning. There was no cabin leak; we needed to mode back to a maintenance option and reintroduce oxygen into the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 07:20:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:45:27 (Artemis Clock) | Right on the limb is extremely mountainous. Tried to get some pictures, but it's a high grazing angle. But it's pretty awesome to just look out and see all of these sites, and it's bright, but very visible with the naked eye. Still primarily seeing whites, grays. Maybe I could convince myself on the far side there's some...
06/04/2026 - 07:20:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:45:48 (Artemis Clock) | Really just glowing bright right now.
06/04/2026 - 07:20:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:45:54 (Artemis Clock) | That's beautiful, Reed. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.
06/04/2026 - 07:21:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:46:16 (Artemis Clock) | Right now, they're the same level of brightness, and then looking down, Copernicus is just a little bit dimmer, but it's close.
06/04/2026 - 07:21:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:46:42 (Artemis Clock) | visibility at the terminator on the western edge of the moon, about one oriental diameter from oriental. And just with our plain eyes, you can really start to see topography. There is elevation.
06/04/2026 - 07:21:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:46:47 (Artemis Clock) | on the moon not just variation in color, and that already makes the moon look wildly different.
06/04/2026 - 07:21:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:46:53 (Artemis Clock) | Eastern Integrity confirming your go/no-go for this burn.
06/04/2026 - 07:22:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:47:16 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity copies.
06/04/2026 - 07:22:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:47:28 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard confirmation there that the team here in Mission Control has pulled go for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction burn three. This burn expected to take place in about 26 minutes from now, and it will be an approximately...
06/04/2026 - 07:23:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:48:14 (Artemis Clock) | correction burn 3 today on flight day 5 to ensure an accurate trajectory as the spacecraft begins to make its way around the moon and back to Earth to minimize further larger trajectory corrections that may be needed on the return journey.
06/04/2026 - 07:23:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:48:41 (Artemis Clock) | Please see this end.
06/04/2026 - 07:24:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:49:40 (Artemis Clock) | Taking place around 10:03 p.m. Central, 11:03 p.m. Eastern time, this burn will fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft to ensure it stays on target for its journey around the moon and back.
06/04/2026 - 07:25:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:50:10 (Artemis Clock) | Artemis Mission Control, we are about 30 seconds away from the time of ignition for the outbound trajectory correction burn. That is when the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module will begin firing to complete the outbound trajectory correction burn and fine-tune its trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 07:25:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:50:28 (Artemis Clock) | And we have confirmation that that outbound trajectory correction burn is now underway.
06/04/2026 - 07:25:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:50:54 (Artemis Clock) | Again, that was an approximately 19-second burn using the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module. That burn completed at 10:03 p.m. Central time, 11:03 p.m. Eastern time, to further fine-tune the Orion spacecraft's trajectory as it continues to make its way around the moon.
06/04/2026 - 07:26:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:51:07 (Artemis Clock) | And it was a good burn. Teguri Houston, good burn. We are assessing the details.
06/04/2026 - 07:26:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:51:14 (Artemis Clock) | It is, and we see the same. Thanks, Mark.
06/04/2026 - 07:26:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:51:38 (Artemis Clock) | for opportunistic science, and you would need to configure your Z5 and Z9 cameras for that, like yesterday.
06/04/2026 - 07:26:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:51:55 (Artemis Clock) | We are tracking and looking forward to it very much. We had a gorgeous view of a very big moon right out of window two during that burn – well, right before the burn, before we maneuvered. It was awesome.
06/04/2026 - 07:27:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:52:06 (Artemis Clock) | And looks like we'll be back at window two for this as well.
06/04/2026 - 07:27:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:52:39 (Artemis Clock) | Now that that outbound trajectory correction burn is complete, teams will be maneuvering the Orion spacecraft into an attitude to be able to capture some opportunistic imaging
06/04/2026 - 07:27:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:11:52:45 (Artemis Clock) | of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 07:38:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:03:44 (Artemis Clock) | of or visual of where Orion is on its flight path, so you can see the white line that kind of starts midway through and leads all the way back to Earth. You can see that Orion has already made its way very close.
06/04/2026 - 07:39:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:04:11 (Artemis Clock) | 40,000 miles away from Earth. We're getting ready to do lunar flyby today, and that means there are a couple of things that'll happen. But first things first, the crew, the way their trajectory is mapped, they are actually breaking the Apollo 13 distance record, the farthest any
06/04/2026 - 07:39:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:04:39 (Artemis Clock) | of five days, 30 minutes, Integrity will reach a max distance from Earth at 252 statute miles. You can see a great visualization here of the Integrity spacecraft. And if we want to switch views, we'll actually see that one
06/04/2026 - 07:40:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:05:00 (Artemis Clock) | telemetry and here in real time. This is one of the really cool advantages of having GoPros attached to each of the solar array wings to give us these 24/7 live views.
06/04/2026 - 07:40:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:05:21 (Artemis Clock) | During the crew sleep period, we will continue to provide periodic updates. For now, this is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 08:00:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:25:51 (Artemis Clock) | Here at the Johnson Space Center, we are coming to you live with our 24/7 continuous coverage of the Artemis II mission. The Artemis II crew is currently asleep aboard the Orion spacecraft named Integrity. At a mission elapsed time of 4 days, 12 hours, 25 minutes, and counting, we are on the
06/04/2026 - 08:01:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:26:03 (Artemis Clock) | So while we get into activities on Flight Day 6, teams here on the ground continue to monitor operations. For now, let's take a look back on our Flight Day 5 highlights. This is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 08:01:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:26:25 (Artemis Clock) | Hello Reed, Victor.
06/04/2026 - 08:02:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:27:09 (Artemis Clock) | we're cheering you on. Thanks to you and the whole team on the ground for building on our Apollo legacy with Artemis. Godspeed and safe travels home.
06/04/2026 - 08:02:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:27:37 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Reed, we will put in work right now, so we're gonna hop on TCD-1. It was great working with all of y'all. I'm handing over here to Jim shortly, and this is my last shift here with y'all, so it's been a great pleasure. Y'all are doing awesome, and I can't wait to see y'all back stateside.
06/04/2026 - 08:03:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:28:06 (Artemis Clock) | start emailing the other crew members here so that I can at least talk to them. That would be a huge, huge help. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 08:03:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:28:12 (Artemis Clock) | Hey Reed, that's a simple thing. I'll make sure it gets done. Have a good one.
06/04/2026 - 08:03:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:28:18 (Artemis Clock) | Mike, integrity comp check.
06/04/2026 - 08:03:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:28:24 (Artemis Clock) | Well, Christine, I got you loud and clear. How 'bout me?
06/04/2026 - 08:03:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:28:48 (Artemis Clock) | Amazing. I've loved every minute of it.
06/04/2026 - 08:04:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:29:00 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, good afternoon, happy Easter to all of you who celebrate, and welcome to the Artemis Mission Control Room here at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. We are starting flight day 5. The astronauts just woke up at 11:05 a.m. central time. Currently, the teams are handing over from orbit 1.
06/04/2026 - 08:04:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:29:23 (Artemis Clock) | their spacesuits rapidly, as if they were in an emergency.
06/04/2026 - 08:04:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:29:51 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity crew, we are rolling Orion by twenty degrees to improve optical comm.
06/04/2026 - 08:05:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:30:14 (Artemis Clock) | Canadian Space Agency astronaut and backup Artemis II astronaut, she'll be the voice you hear speaking with the crew from the ground today.
06/04/2026 - 08:05:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:30:23 (Artemis Clock) | That information was about the optical communications system, letting the crew know that they are going to maneuver the spacecraft to get better pointing for that optical communications.
06/04/2026 - 08:05:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:30:47 (Artemis Clock) | And more as a link between Orion and Mission Control.
06/04/2026 - 08:05:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:30:53 (Artemis Clock) | These are laser communications, so they use infrared light rather than traditional radio waves, and that allows more data to be sent.
06/04/2026 - 08:05:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:30:58 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina, we are on board with you. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 08:06:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:31:22 (Artemis Clock) | A live view inside the Orion spacecraft, now just 61,919 miles away from the moon, the destination of this flight and where they will arrive for the flyby tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 08:06:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:31:49 (Artemis Clock) | We are entering Flight Day 5. The crew is still in their post-sleep period and configuring the spacecraft for the day's events.
06/04/2026 - 08:07:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:32:12 (Artemis Clock) | digital paper in pocket-size booklets.
06/04/2026 - 08:07:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:32:16 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 08:07:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:32:41 (Artemis Clock) | I just happened in the packing plan and wasn't able to find anything. Thanks for the help. Low priority.
06/04/2026 - 08:07:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:32:45 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina. IVA is looking at it.
06/04/2026 - 08:07:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:32:55 (Artemis Clock) | As we've seen throughout the mission, the crew will call down when they need to find something or when they need to store something. Everything aboard the spacecraft is tracked so it can be easily accessible or easily stowed and found later.
06/04/2026 - 08:08:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:33:30 (Artemis Clock) | We have a longstanding tradition in the astronaut office of the traditional astronaut pin, and when you fly in space, you change from silver to gold, and so we figured today was a perfect day to honor our friend Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen with his flown Astro pin.
06/04/2026 - 08:08:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:33:55 (Artemis Clock) | that we have in the office, this tradition come to reality for me. So a lot of gratitude for all those people. It's a pretty special experience. Thanks for doing this, guys.
06/04/2026 - 08:08:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:33:59 (Artemis Clock) | Congratulations.
06/04/2026 - 08:09:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:34:54 (Artemis Clock) | and watching two very sweet little girls go try to find them. So, to commemorate that on board, we did hide a few eggs around the cabin. They were the dehydrated scrambled egg variety, but we're all pretty happy with them.
06/04/2026 - 08:10:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:35:04 (Artemis Clock) | That's wonderful. We'll keep an eye out.
06/04/2026 - 08:10:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:35:36 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks, Victor. Happy Easter everyone. We were talking up here as a crew and we did want to send a special Easter message on this day. And you know, no matter your faith or religion, for me the teachings of Jesus were...
06/04/2026 - 08:11:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:36:11 (Artemis Clock) | And our goal as humanity should be to just follow in that example. There were many examples in the past, but that's one example of love that we can just all follow in those footsteps, and it will serve us well.
06/04/2026 - 08:11:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:36:40 (Artemis Clock) | Specific comments yet, but ready to hear what you've got for us.
06/04/2026 - 08:12:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:37:37 (Artemis Clock) | atmosphere for up to six days if Orion were to depressurize. Now this is obviously the first time that humans have ever flown aboard Orion, so the first time we've gotten the opportunity to test out these suits. So after they put on the suits, they will pressurize them, and then they will install their seats.
06/04/2026 - 08:12:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:37:43 (Artemis Clock) | They uninstalled their seats following arrival in their high Earth orbit.
06/04/2026 - 08:12:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:37:50 (Artemis Clock) | And with these suits being pressurized, that seat install would be a little more difficult.
06/04/2026 - 08:12:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:37:58 (Artemis Clock) | Jenny, we are ready for the position to latch the leg assemblies onto the seat backs for one and two.
06/04/2026 - 08:14:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:39:08 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks for letting us know, Christina. That syncs with everything that we've been tracking. We just want to update you that we don't believe that we will do any objectives at the lower pressure, so at 3.7 psid, as you're suggesting.
06/04/2026 - 08:14:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:39:30 (Artemis Clock) | So we'll continue to talk about that, and in the meantime, you're good to continue.
06/04/2026 - 08:15:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:40:45 (Artemis Clock) | Copy Rapid Dawn Complete seats one and two. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 08:16:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:41:15 (Artemis Clock) | crew survival system suits. Now that the suits are pressurized, it can be more difficult for the astronauts to maneuver about the cabin. They are obviously also connected to umbilicals, which make another hurdle into moving around the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 08:17:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:42:02 (Artemis Clock) | Execute procedure 2.1.0, cabin leak suspected. We need to get the cabin pressure control to maintenance. This will perform a cabin O2 introduction. Again, we are working on getting the crew audio back in.
06/04/2026 - 08:17:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:42:25 (Artemis Clock) | Spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 08:17:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:42:53 (Artemis Clock) | into the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 08:18:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:43:00 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Jenny, the moon is decidedly large out the window today. We can see all of Apollo, I'm sorry, all of Orientale, angular ring. We can see, I'm 99% sure, Ohm, CP Raso very easily, and just getting over...
06/04/2026 - 08:18:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:43:47 (Artemis Clock) | It is really just glowing bright right now.
06/04/2026 - 08:18:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:43:54 (Artemis Clock) | That's a beautiful read. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.
06/04/2026 - 08:19:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:44:28 (Artemis Clock) | Houston Integrity, just one other observation. Looking at the terminator, it's almost a full moon from this perspective, but we've got the terminator on the western edge of the moon, about one oriental diameter.
06/04/2026 - 08:19:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:44:59 (Artemis Clock) | Eastern Integrity confirming your go/no-go for this burn.
06/04/2026 - 08:20:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:45:06 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, MCC has polled "go" for the burn.
06/04/2026 - 08:20:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:45:10 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity copies.
06/04/2026 - 08:20:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:45:53 (Artemis Clock) | There were previously two other outbound trajectory correction burns on flight days three and four that ended up being cancelled as it was determined they were no longer needed due to the accuracy of the translunar injection burn on flight day two. However, the team decided to go ahead and execute
06/04/2026 - 08:21:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:46:16 (Artemis Clock) | Spacecraft begins to make its way around the moon and back to Earth to minimize further larger trajectory corrections that may be needed on the return journey.
06/04/2026 - 08:21:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:46:41 (Artemis Clock) | Please see this end.
06/04/2026 - 08:22:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:47:03 (Artemis Clock) | in preparation for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction 3 burn scheduled to take place in about 5 minutes from now.
06/04/2026 - 08:22:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:47:53 (Artemis Clock) | Trajectory correction burn. That is when the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft's service module will begin firing to complete the outbound trajectory correction burn and fine-tune its trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 08:24:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:49:02 (Artemis Clock) | 11:03 p.m. Eastern time, to further fine-tune the Orion spacecraft's trajectory as it continues to make its way around the moon, and it was a good burn. Technology Houston, good burn. We are assessing the details.
06/04/2026 - 08:24:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:49:09 (Artemis Clock) | It is, and we see the same. Thanks, Mark.
06/04/2026 - 08:24:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:49:33 (Artemis Clock) | maneuvering for opportunistic science, and you would need to configure your D5 and Z9 cameras for that, like yesterday.
06/04/2026 - 08:24:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:49:56 (Artemis Clock) | Gorgeous view of a very big moon right out of window 2 during that burn. Well, right before the burn, before we maneuvered. It was awesome.
06/04/2026 - 08:25:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:50:01 (Artemis Clock) | And it looks like we'll be back at window two for this as well.
06/04/2026 - 08:25:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:50:34 (Artemis Clock) | And for tomorrow on flight day six, now that that outbound trajectory correction burn is complete, teams will be maneuvering the Orion spacecraft into an attitude to be able to capture some opportunistic images.
06/04/2026 - 08:25:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:12:50:40 (Artemis Clock) | Gene of the moon
06/04/2026 - 09:00:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:25:59 (Artemis Clock) | Flight Day 5 and are going into Flight Day 6 when the crew wakes up. Flight Day 6 is of course our lunar flyby day. And you can see now the Orion spacecraft with live views from our solar array wings. You can see the
06/04/2026 - 09:01:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:26:14 (Artemis Clock) | moon getting closer and closer out in the distance.
06/04/2026 - 09:01:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:26:24 (Artemis Clock) | and the spacecraft getting there. So right now we are 241,000 miles and counting away from Earth and 24,000 miles away from the moon. We will pass our Apollo distance record in about 5 hours, 57 minutes and counting down. For now, let's take a look back at flight.
06/04/2026 - 09:01:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:26:33 (Artemis Clock) | Key5's highlights.
06/04/2026 - 09:01:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:26:50 (Artemis Clock) | Hello Reed, Victor.
06/04/2026 - 09:02:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:27:39 (Artemis Clock) | and safe travels home.
06/04/2026 - 09:02:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:27:54 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Reed, we will put in work right now, so we're gonna hop on PCD-1. It was great working with all of y'all. I'm handing over here to Jim shortly, and this is my last shift here with y'all, so it's been a great pleasure. Y'all are doing awesome, and can't wait to see y'all back stateside.
06/04/2026 - 09:03:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:28:55 (Artemis Clock) | Mike, integrity, comp check.
06/04/2026 - 09:04:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:29:13 (Artemis Clock) | Well, Christine, I got you loud and clear. How about me?
06/04/2026 - 09:04:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:29:28 (Artemis Clock) | Hey buddy, we have you the same. It's been great working with you. Thank you for all the help and support. For sure. Y'all have been amazing. I've loved every minute of it.
06/04/2026 - 09:04:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:29:41 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, good afternoon, Happy Easter to all of you who celebrate, and welcome to the Artemis Mission Control Room here at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. We are starting flight day five. The astronauts just woke up at 11:05 a.m. Central time. Currently, the teams are handing over from orbit one.
06/04/2026 - 09:04:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:29:53 (Artemis Clock) | from the Orbit 3 team to the Orbit 1 team led by Jeff Rattigan here in Mission Control. It's going to be a busy day for the crew with their OX suit demo in which they will be donning their spacesuits rapidly as if they were in an emergency.
06/04/2026 - 09:05:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:30:08 (Artemis Clock) | Currently Orion is over 63,000 miles away from the moon, 215,000 miles away from our home planet Earth. We are MET, mission elapsed time, three days, 18 hours, and 28 minutes.
06/04/2026 - 09:05:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:30:21 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity crew, we are rolling Orion by 20 degrees to improve optical comm.
06/04/2026 - 09:05:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:30:36 (Artemis Clock) | Those communications you just heard called to the crew were from CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons. She is a Canadian Space Agency astronaut and backup Artemis II astronaut. She'll be the voice you hear speaking with the crew from the ground today.
06/04/2026 - 09:05:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:30:47 (Artemis Clock) | That information was about the optical communications system, letting the crew know that they are going to maneuver the spacecraft to get better pointing for that optical communications.
06/04/2026 - 09:06:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:31:02 (Artemis Clock) | This opcom system allows the team to transmit science data, procedures, flight plans, communications and more as a link between Orion and mission control.
06/04/2026 - 09:06:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:31:13 (Artemis Clock) | These are laser communications, so they use infrared light rather than traditional radio waves, and that allows more data to be sent.
06/04/2026 - 09:06:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:31:26 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina, we are on board with you. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 09:06:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:31:41 (Artemis Clock) | You're looking at a live view inside the Orion spacecraft, now just 61,919 miles away from the moon, the destination of this flight and where they will arrive for the flyby tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 09:07:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:32:32 (Artemis Clock) | saliva is collected before, during, and after the mission. The crew blots it onto special paper in pocket-sized booklets.
06/04/2026 - 09:07:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:32:44 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 09:07:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:32:59 (Artemis Clock) | Hey, low priority, can you please tell me a good stow location for the two lens caps? I looked up lens cap in the packing plan and wasn't able to find anything. Thanks for the help. Low priority.
06/04/2026 - 09:08:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:33:08 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina. Ivy is looking at it.
06/04/2026 - 09:08:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:33:16 (Artemis Clock) | As we've seen throughout the mission, the crew will call down when they need to find something or when they need to store something. Everything aboard the spacecraft is tracked so it can be easily accessible or easily stowed and found later.
06/04/2026 - 09:08:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:33:58 (Artemis Clock) | And so we figured today was a perfect day to honor our friend, Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen, with his cloned AstroPin.
06/04/2026 - 09:09:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:34:10 (Artemis Clock) | Wow, that sounds like it took a lot of people to make this little representation that we have in the office, this tradition come to reality for me. So a lot of gratitude for all those people. That's a pretty special experience. Thanks for doing that.
06/04/2026 - 09:09:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:34:18 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks, guys.
06/04/2026 - 09:09:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:34:25 (Artemis Clock) | Congratulations.
06/04/2026 - 09:09:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:34:40 (Artemis Clock) | Well deserved. It's an honor to fly with you, Jeremy, and to be here when you get your gold astronaut wings. We wanted to take a minute to commemorate the holiday that we have. This time of year is something that many religions and many cultures hold dear. It's a time of emotions.
06/04/2026 - 09:09:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:34:49 (Artemis Clock) | joy, as well as...
06/04/2026 - 09:10:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:35:03 (Artemis Clock) | solemness, honoring, honoring what's going on both in our world and in our religious beliefs. Another aspect of that is our family traditions. And I know for me, if I was on the earth right now, I would be with my family in Houston, the Monterrosas, and we would be hiding confetti eggs in the backyard and watching
06/04/2026 - 09:10:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:35:22 (Artemis Clock) | These very sweet little girls go try to find them. So to commemorate that on board, we did hide a few eggs around the cabin. They were the dehydrated scrambled egg variety, but we're all pretty happy with them.
06/04/2026 - 09:10:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:35:35 (Artemis Clock) | That's wonderful. We'll keep an eye out.
06/04/2026 - 09:10:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:35:50 (Artemis Clock) | Yes, first I wanted to just say happy birthday to my father Victor Glover Sr. and happy Easter to everyone down there on Earth. And with that I will pass it off to Jeremy.
06/04/2026 - 09:11:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:36:08 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks Victor. Happy Easter everyone. We were talking up here as a crew, and we did want to send a special Easter message on this day. And, you know, no matter your faith or religion, for me, the teachings of Jesus
06/04/2026 - 09:11:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:36:23 (Artemis Clock) | were always a very simple truth of love, universal love, love yourself and love others. And something for us, being up here and looking back at all of you through one tiny window, that just resonates 100% true. And our goal is...
06/04/2026 - 09:11:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:36:36 (Artemis Clock) | Humanity should be to just follow in that example. There were many examples in the past, but that's one example of love that we can just all follow in those footsteps and it will serve us well.
06/04/2026 - 09:11:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:36:51 (Artemis Clock) | And with that, Houston, we are eager and ready to start our exciting day of suit ops with you all, and we don't have any specific comments yet, but ready to hear what you've got for us.
06/04/2026 - 09:12:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:37:57 (Artemis Clock) | atmosphere for up to six days if Orion were to depressurize. Now this is obviously the first time that humans have ever flown aboard Orion, so the first time we've gotten the opportunity to test out these suits. So after they put on the suits, they will pressurize them, and then they will install their seats.
06/04/2026 - 09:13:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:38:27 (Artemis Clock) | They uninstalled their seats following arrival on in their high Earth orbit.
06/04/2026 - 09:13:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:38:36 (Artemis Clock) | And with these suits being pressurized, that seat install would be a little more difficult.
06/04/2026 - 09:13:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:38:41 (Artemis Clock) | Jenny, we are ready for the position to latch the leg assemblies onto the seatbacks for one and two.
06/04/2026 - 09:13:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:38:49 (Artemis Clock) | For both seats one and two, you're looking for the seat pan position. You will be putting the pit pins in position three and seven for both seats.
06/04/2026 - 09:13:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:38:59 (Artemis Clock) | Jams, we are nearing the time of having you all go off board so that we can get into our suits. Just wanted to check in with you on timing or anything else you've noted that you want to share before we get into that.
06/04/2026 - 09:14:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:39:44 (Artemis Clock) | and psi D at your sup delta pressure, and we're also looking at adjusting the objectives during the first set as well. So we'll continue to talk about that, and in the meantime, you are go to continue.
06/04/2026 - 09:16:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:41:02 (Artemis Clock) | Copy Rapid Dawn complete seats one and two. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 09:16:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:41:33 (Artemis Clock) | more difficult for the astronauts to maneuver about the cabin. They are obviously also connected to umbilicals, which make another hurdle into moving around the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 09:17:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:42:58 (Artemis Clock) | We also noticed a cabin fan change which caused a cabin leak suspect warning. There was no cabin leak. We needed to mode back to a maintenance option and reintroduce oxygen into the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 09:19:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:44:02 (Artemis Clock) | is really just glowing bright right now.
06/04/2026 - 09:19:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:44:08 (Artemis Clock) | That's a beautiful read. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.
06/04/2026 - 09:19:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:44:36 (Artemis Clock) | It's a little bit dimmer, but it's close.
06/04/2026 - 09:20:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:45:03 (Artemis Clock) | You really start to see topography. There is elevation on the moon, not just variation in color. And that already makes the moon look wildly different.
06/04/2026 - 09:20:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:45:09 (Artemis Clock) | Eastern Integrity confirming your go/no-go for this burn.
06/04/2026 - 09:20:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:45:36 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity copies.
06/04/2026 - 09:20:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:45:43 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard confirmation there that the team here in Mission Control has pulled go for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction burn three. This burn expected to take place in about 26 minutes from now, and it will be an approximately
06/04/2026 - 09:21:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:46:44 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, maneuver to burn attitude starting in about three minutes.
06/04/2026 - 09:21:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:46:55 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, we're in burn attitude.
06/04/2026 - 09:22:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:47:09 (Artemis Clock) | We see the same?
06/04/2026 - 09:22:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:47:24 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard that confirmation called up to the crew on board the Orion spacecraft that the spacecraft has maneuvered to the correct burn attitude in preparation for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction 3 burn scheduled to take place in about...
06/04/2026 - 09:22:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:47:34 (Artemis Clock) | five minutes from now.
06/04/2026 - 09:22:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:47:48 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. You're now seeing a live view of the Orion spacecraft, the exterior of the spacecraft as we are about two minutes out from the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn. That burn is expected to last about 19 seconds, taking place around 10...
06/04/2026 - 09:23:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:48:03 (Artemis Clock) | 3:03 p.m. Central, 11:03 p.m. Eastern Time. This burn will fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft to ensure it stays on target for its journey around the moon and back. This is Artemis Mission Control. We are about 30.
06/04/2026 - 09:23:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:48:17 (Artemis Clock) | 30 seconds away from the time of ignition for the outbound trajectory correction burn. That is when the auxiliary thrusters on the Orion spacecraft service module will begin firing to complete the outbound trajectory correction burn and fine-tune its trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 09:25:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:50:15 (Artemis Clock) | This view of a very big moon right out of window two during that burn, well, right before the burn, before we maneuvered, it was awesome.
06/04/2026 - 09:25:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:50:23 (Artemis Clock) | And it looks like we'll be back at window 2 for this as well.
06/04/2026 - 09:26:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:13:51:05 (Artemis Clock) | be able to capture some opportunistic imaging of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 09:44:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:09:44 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning from Mission Control Houston. We are at a mission elapsed time of four days, 14 hours, and 8 minutes and counting. This is flight day, the end of flight day 5, while the crew is currently in their sleep period. Orion is currently 23,000 miles away from the moon, and we are so excited, and I'm here with Laura.
06/04/2026 - 09:45:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:10:03 (Artemis Clock) | Lorelai Lorelai Kirk, she is the Deputy Orion Imagery Lead and she's going to tell us a little bit about what we're going to see today. So first off, Lorelai, welcome. Thank you. You must be so excited for today. I am very excited for today. We're excited to have you. Tell us a little bit about what you're doing for the mission.
06/04/2026 - 09:45:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:10:16 (Artemis Clock) | So I help coordinate the planning, the acquisition, and the dissemination of all of the imagery that you're seeing for operations, medical, engineering, outreach, and science and payload. You pointed at me for...
06/04/2026 - 09:46:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:11:20 (Artemis Clock) | Summer is saying, and we've talked to all the disciplines to make sure that they're getting what they need. Excellent, and we have several cameras inside and outside of Orion, so I'd like to start with you talking about the live views we're seeing right now on our screen here, up here on the big board. Tell us a little bit about those cameras that are on.
06/04/2026 - 09:46:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:11:39 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, so this is actually from a SAW camera, solar array wing. We have cameras on each of the SAW cameras, so there's four there, and you're currently viewing the backside of the service module, and then you have the moon there.
06/04/2026 - 09:46:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:11:56 (Artemis Clock) | that is very bright because these cameras are actually set to look at the vehicle, not at the moon or the Earth or stars. They're there so that we can see the external portion of the vehicles for inspections or any issues we might come up with. Then we also have
06/04/2026 - 09:47:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:12:09 (Artemis Clock) | Another saw view. We also have cameras, three cameras on the service module that look, you know, like down the, we call it the rocket cam, so it looks down the length of the service module. We have another one in the front. It's the forward.
06/04/2026 - 09:48:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:13:10 (Artemis Clock) | The vehicle is healthy and remains healthy while the crew is sleeping aboard it. We're monitoring stuff here on the ground, right? Yes, it's one of those things where they sleep, we watch. But yeah, they sleep, we watch. That's a great way of putting it. And we are also looking at the Sun, the stars, the planets, the moon whenever.
06/04/2026 - 09:48:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:13:28 (Artemis Clock) | We are going to be doing our flyby operations a little bit later on too, right? That's correct. So we'll maneuver those solar arrays, is that right? Yes, we'll maneuver one or two of them to look at the moon. We have to have some of them still in sun track because we need those solar array wings to collect our energy. Yep, and we can't do anything without power, you are right.
06/04/2026 - 09:48:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:13:46 (Artemis Clock) | So we went through the nine cameras on the outside of the vehicle. Let's talk about the cameras inside Orion. There are so many cameras inside the vehicle. So let's see, we'll start with the ones that are mounted. We have one that looks at the display units that we saw on day of launch.
06/04/2026 - 09:49:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:14:07 (Artemis Clock) | have two that look out the windows, so one of those will be viewing the moon when we're doing the flyby. So exciting. We have the docking camera, of course. Great. Then we have two medical ones that are attached to watch the astronauts during launch.
06/04/2026 - 09:49:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:14:23 (Artemis Clock) | launch and during landing. Then we have just an enormous number of handheld cameras. So the crew has a little GoPro that they like to use for video. They have two Nikon D5s. That's where we get the amazing images of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 09:50:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:15:29 (Artemis Clock) | Cameras or imaging sensors, I guess we can call them. That is so exciting. And you know what? I am so impressed that you were able to describe that many cameras and with such incredible detail and precision. We've been living it for years now. So tell me about that.
06/04/2026 - 09:50:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:15:44 (Artemis Clock) | That's going to be my next question for you is, how does the team prepare for something like this, you know, something that is so far in the future, something that we are doing again. The last time we were there was 1972 with Apollo 17. This is a similar flight plan.
06/04/2026 - 09:51:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:16:05 (Artemis Clock) | We're going around the moon like we did for Apollo 8. There's a lot of variables here, so how does a team prepare? So we started planning for this mission before Artemis 1. So we started planning for Artemis 2 back in 2021. We've been planning it for years now. Wow. So first.
06/04/2026 - 09:51:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:16:20 (Artemis Clock) | First we sit down with all of the various groups and we find out what kind of imagery they think they're gonna want. So from there we can plan, sometimes we have to limit expectations because you're not always going to get 4K video from everything. Not all of our cameras are capable of that.
06/04/2026 - 09:52:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:17:29 (Artemis Clock) | Normally, if something happens, or if they were to hear like a funny noise on something, and they might want to look at that, so we'll have to do that right, you know, right then, and then we have to figure out how to do it, what camera settings to set, and everything else, because it's very different taking pictures in space than from taking pictures on the Earth.
06/04/2026 - 09:52:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:17:46 (Artemis Clock) | I can only imagine. Yeah, you can't take pictures. When it's dark, it is really dark. And then, as you guys have probably seen, the vehicle is either white or it's taped. The crew module has that shiny silver tape on it. That can prove a challenge.
06/04/2026 - 09:53:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:18:07 (Artemis Clock) | in taking images of it because it's very reflective or in this case just shiny. Well, first and foremost, I want to thank you and the team for all that you've done because for those of you who are watching us right now, it's thanks to people like Lorelai and folks that support her that
06/04/2026 - 09:53:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:18:23 (Artemis Clock) | We're getting all of this live video down to show you where we are. If you're following NASA on any of our social media channels, at NASA, at NASA Artemis, our Flickr pages, on Instagram, on X, on Facebook, any platform that you can probably think of that where NASA is present, we are sharing daily, frequent.
06/04/2026 - 09:53:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:18:39 (Artemis Clock) | and updates, and leading up into today's lunar flyby, we do plan to share even more updates as these images come down. And, of course, it should be noted that this is a test flight, so some things, right, they may not perform as we're anticipating, and that's okay as long as the crew is safe and we are getting information.
06/04/2026 - 09:54:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:19:47 (Artemis Clock) | We'll continue to watch, but for now we have Lorelai Kirk, who is here with us from the Orion Imagery team. She's the deputy lead for Imagery. We'll continue to provide you with live 24/7 coverage of the mission. And as mentioned, we are at a mission elapsed time of 4 days, 14 hours, 19 minutes, and we are about
06/04/2026 - 09:55:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:20:03 (Artemis Clock) | 22,000 miles away from the moon. For now, this is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 10:03:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:28:15 (Artemis Clock) | Hello, Reed, Victor.
06/04/2026 - 10:03:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:28:33 (Artemis Clock) | Christina and Jeremy, this is Apollo 16 astronaut Charlie Duke. John Young and I landed on the moon in 1972 in the lunar module we named Orion. I'm glad to see a different kind of Orion helping return humans to the moon.
06/04/2026 - 10:03:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:28:52 (Artemis Clock) | As America charts the course to the lunar surface, below you on the moon is a photo of my family. I pray it reminds you that we in America and all of the world are cheering you on. Thanks to you and the whole team on the ground for building on our
06/04/2026 - 10:04:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:29:04 (Artemis Clock) | Apollo legacy with Artemis. Godspeed and safe travels home.
06/04/2026 - 10:04:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:29:19 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Reed, we will put in the work right now, so we're going to hop on TCD-1. It was great working with all of y'all. I'm handing over here to Jim shortly, and this is my last shift here with y'all, so it's been a great pleasure. Y'all are doing awesome and can't wait to see y'all back stateside.
06/04/2026 - 10:05:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:30:22 (Artemis Clock) | We have you the same. It's been great working with you. Thank you for all the help and support. For sure. You all have been amazing. I've loved every minute of it.
06/04/2026 - 10:05:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:30:40 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, good afternoon, happy Easter to all of you who celebrate, and welcome to the Artemis Mission Control Room here at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. We are starting flight day 5. The astronauts just woke up at 11:05 a.m. Central Time. Currently, the teams are handing over from orbit...
06/04/2026 - 10:05:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:30:58 (Artemis Clock) | From the Orbit 3 team to the Orbit 1 team led by Jeff Reddigan here in Mission Control. It's going to be a busy day for the crew with their OX suit demo in which they will be donning their spacesuits rapidly as if they were in an emergency. Currently, Orion is over 60.
06/04/2026 - 10:06:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:31:14 (Artemis Clock) | 3,000 miles away from the moon, 215,000 miles away from our home planet Earth. We are MET, Mission Elapsed Time, 3 days, 18 hours, and 28 minutes.
06/04/2026 - 10:06:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:31:34 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity crew, we are rolling Orion by twenty degrees to improve optical comm.
06/04/2026 - 10:06:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:31:52 (Artemis Clock) | Those communications you just heard called to the crew were from CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons. She is a Canadian Space Agency astronaut and backup Artemis II astronaut. She'll be the voice you hear speaking with the crew from the ground today.
06/04/2026 - 10:07:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:32:08 (Artemis Clock) | That information was about the optical communications system, letting the crew know that they are going to maneuver the spacecraft to get better pointing for that optical communications.
06/04/2026 - 10:07:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:32:32 (Artemis Clock) | This opcom system allows the team to transmit science data, procedures, flight plans, communications and more from as a link between Orion and mission control. These are laser communications, so they use infrared light.
06/04/2026 - 10:07:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:32:44 (Artemis Clock) | rather than traditional radio waves, and that allows more data to be sent.
06/04/2026 - 10:07:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:32:57 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina. We are on board with you. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 10:08:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:33:19 (Artemis Clock) | You're looking at a live view inside the Orion spacecraft, now just 61,919 miles away from the moon, the destination of this flight and where they will arrive for the flyby tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 10:08:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:33:36 (Artemis Clock) | As we get a live look inside the cabin, closest to the camera, NASA astronaut Christina Koch, and behind her, Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen, his first flight to space. We are entering flight day five. The crew is still in their post-sleep period and configuring the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 10:08:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:33:52 (Artemis Clock) | craft for the day's events.
06/04/2026 - 10:09:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:34:13 (Artemis Clock) | Immediately upon wake-up and before the astronauts brush their teeth or exercise, they are asked to take a saliva collection. Saliva provides a unique window into human immune system functions in a deep space environment, so dry saliva is collected before, during, and after the mission.
06/04/2026 - 10:09:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:34:30 (Artemis Clock) | bleach through blot it onto special paper in pocket-size booklets.
06/04/2026 - 10:09:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:34:43 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 10:09:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:34:57 (Artemis Clock) | At low priority, can you please tell me a good STO location for the two lens caps? I looked up lens cap in the packing plan and wasn't able to find anything. Thanks for the help, low priority.
06/04/2026 - 10:10:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:35:10 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina. Ivy is looking at it.
06/04/2026 - 10:10:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:35:25 (Artemis Clock) | As we've seen throughout the mission, the crew will call down when they need to find something or when they need to store something. Everything aboard the spacecraft is tracked so it can be easily accessible or easily stowed and found later.
06/04/2026 - 10:10:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:35:55 (Artemis Clock) | Houston, Integrity. Good morning and happy Easter to everyone down on Earth. We wanted to kick off our Easter Sunday by honoring our crewmate Jeremy Hansen. We have a long-standing tradition in the astronaut office of the traditional astronaut pin.
06/04/2026 - 10:11:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:36:12 (Artemis Clock) | fly in space, you change from silver to gold, and so we figured today was a perfect day to honor our friend Canadian astronaut Jeremy Hansen with his flown astronaut pin.
06/04/2026 - 10:11:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:36:35 (Artemis Clock) | Wow, that sounds like it took a lot of people to make this little representation that we have in the office, this tradition come to reality for me. So a lot of gratitude for all those people. It's a pretty special experience. Thanks for doing this.
06/04/2026 - 10:11:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:36:52 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks, guys.
06/04/2026 - 10:12:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:37:13 (Artemis Clock) | Congratulations.
06/04/2026 - 10:12:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:37:34 (Artemis Clock) | Well deserved. It's an honor to fly with you, Jeremy, and to be here when you get your gold astronaut wings. We wanted to take a minute to commemorate the holiday that we have. This time of year is something that many religions and many cultures hold dear. It's a time of emotions such as...
06/04/2026 - 10:12:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:37:48 (Artemis Clock) | joy as well as solemnness, honoring what's going on both in our world and in our religious beliefs. Another aspect of that is our family traditions, and I know for me, if I was on the earth right now, I would be with my family in Houston, the Monterosos, and...
06/04/2026 - 10:13:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:38:06 (Artemis Clock) | We would be hiding confetti eggs in the backyard and watching two very sweet little girls go try to find them. So to commemorate that on board, we did hide a few eggs around the cabin. They were the dehydrated scrambled egg variety, but we're all pretty happy with them.
06/04/2026 - 10:14:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:39:19 (Artemis Clock) | if Orion were to depressurize. Now this is obviously the first time that humans have ever flown aboard Orion, so the first time we've gotten the opportunity to test out these suits. So after they put on the suits, they will pressurize them, and then they will install their seats. They uninstalled their seats following
06/04/2026 - 10:14:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:39:34 (Artemis Clock) | arrival on in their high Earth orbit.
06/04/2026 - 10:14:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:39:48 (Artemis Clock) | And with these suits being pressurized, that seat install would be a little more difficult. Jenny, we are ready for the position to latch the leg assemblies onto the seat backs for one and two.
06/04/2026 - 10:15:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:40:05 (Artemis Clock) | For both seats one and two, you are looking for the seat pan position, you will be putting the pit pins in position three and seven for both seats.
06/04/2026 - 10:15:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:40:27 (Artemis Clock) | James, we are nearing the time of having you all go off board so that we can get into our suits. Just wanted to check in with you on timing or anything else you've noted that you want to share before we get into that.
06/04/2026 - 10:17:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:42:44 (Artemis Clock) | inside the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 10:18:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:43:02 (Artemis Clock) | Again, today we are conducting a demonstration of these crew survival system suits. Now that the suits are pressurized, it can be more difficult for the astronauts to maneuver about the cabin. They are obviously also connected to umbilicals, which make another
06/04/2026 - 10:18:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:43:18 (Artemis Clock) | hurdle into moving around the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 10:18:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:43:36 (Artemis Clock) | The crew will soon be moving into their midday meal period, and then later this afternoon having the OTC-3 burn, that's Outbound Trajectory Correction 3. We did cancel OTCs 1 and 2. These small outbound trajectory correction burns help keep us on the proper trajectory.
06/04/2026 - 10:18:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:43:52 (Artemis Clock) | Trajectory for our lunar flyby and our return to Earth. Integrity, we have you the same. Please execute procedure 2.1.0, cabin leak suspected. We need to get the cabin pressure control to maintenance.
06/04/2026 - 10:19:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:44:09 (Artemis Clock) | This will perform a CAP and O2 introduction. Again, we are working on getting the crew audio back into the broadcast, but you heard CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons, CSA astronaut and Artemis II backup, communicating with the crew some of our recent
06/04/2026 - 10:19:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:44:29 (Artemis Clock) | changes on the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 10:19:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:44:53 (Artemis Clock) | As we went into the LOS with the crew, that loss of signal which we were expecting, we also noticed a cabin fan change which caused a cabin leak suspect warning. There was no cabin leak. We needed to mode back to APU.
06/04/2026 - 10:20:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:45:11 (Artemis Clock) | maintenance option and reintroduce oxygen into the cabin. All right, Jenny, the moon is decidedly large out the window today. We can see all of Apollo, I'm sorry, all of Oriental, angular ring. We can see...
06/04/2026 - 10:20:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:45:27 (Artemis Clock) | 99% sure OMS CP Raso very easily, and just getting over, can't quite pick up cloud off yet, but that far side that is right on the limb is extremely mountainous. Tried to get some pictures, but it's a high grazing angle, but it's pretty awesome to just look out and see.
06/04/2026 - 10:20:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:45:48 (Artemis Clock) | and it's bright, but very visible with the naked eye. Still primarily seeing white strays. Maybe I can convince myself on the far side there's some just hues of brown, very light, very, very faint. But it's a great view. It's beautiful. And on the near side...
06/04/2026 - 10:21:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:46:02 (Artemis Clock) | Eratosthenes is by far the most prominent feature. It is really just glowing bright right now.
06/04/2026 - 10:21:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:46:14 (Artemis Clock) | That's a beautiful read. Thanks for bringing us all up there with you.
06/04/2026 - 10:21:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:46:34 (Artemis Clock) | And for the science team, Pierazzo and Erastarchus have the same albedo level right now. They're the same level of brightness. And then looking down, Copernicus is just a little bit dimmer, but it's close.
06/04/2026 - 10:21:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:46:50 (Artemis Clock) | And Houston, Integrity, just one other observation. Looking at the terminator, it's almost a full moon from this perspective, but we've got the terminator on the western edge of the moon, about one oriental diameter.
06/04/2026 - 10:22:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:47:07 (Artemis Clock) | from Orientale, and just with our plain eyes, you can really start to see topography. There is elevation on the moon, not just variation in color. And that already makes the moon look wildly different.
06/04/2026 - 10:22:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:47:24 (Artemis Clock) | Eastern Integrity, confirming your go/no-go for this burn.
06/04/2026 - 10:22:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:47:40 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, MCC has polled go for the burn.
06/04/2026 - 10:22:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:47:56 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity copies.
06/04/2026 - 10:23:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:48:11 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard confirmation there that the team here in Mission Control has pulled go for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction burn 3. This burn expected to take place in about 26 minutes from now and it will be an approximately
06/04/2026 - 10:23:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:48:32 (Artemis Clock) | The 19-second burn using the auxiliary engines on the Orion spacecraft. There were previously two other outbound trajectory correction burns on flight days 3 and 4 that ended up being canceled as it was determined they were no longer needed due to the accuracy.
06/04/2026 - 10:23:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:48:47 (Artemis Clock) | of the translator injection burn on flight day two. However, the team decided to go ahead and execute this outbound trajectory correction burn three today on flight day five to ensure an accurate trajectory as the
06/04/2026 - 10:24:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:49:02 (Artemis Clock) | spacecraft begins to make its way around the moon and back to Earth to minimize further larger trajectory corrections that may be needed on the return journey.
06/04/2026 - 10:24:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:49:17 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, maneuver to burn attitude starting in about three minutes. Integrity Houston, we're in burn attitude.
06/04/2026 - 10:24:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:49:32 (Artemis Clock) | Please see this end.
06/04/2026 - 10:24:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:49:53 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. We just heard that confirmation called up to the crew onboard the Orion spacecraft that the spacecraft has maneuvered to the correct burn attitude in preparation for the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn scheduled to take place in about...
06/04/2026 - 10:25:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:50:08 (Artemis Clock) | About five minutes from now.
06/04/2026 - 10:25:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:50:24 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. You're now seeing a live view of the Orion spacecraft, the exterior of the spacecraft, as we are about two minutes out from the upcoming outbound trajectory correction three burn. That burn is expected to last about 19 seconds, taking...
06/04/2026 - 10:26:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:51:21 (Artemis Clock) | cameras for that, like yesterday.
06/04/2026 - 10:26:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:51:38 (Artemis Clock) | We are tracking and looking forward to it very much. We had a gorgeous view of a very big moon right out of window two during that burn, well, right before the burn, before we maneuvered. It was awesome.
06/04/2026 - 10:26:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:51:56 (Artemis Clock) | And looks like we'll be back at window two for this as well.
06/04/2026 - 10:27:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:52:08 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control. About seven minutes ago, the Orion spacecraft executed the outbound trajectory correction three burn to fine-tune the trajectory of the Orion spacecraft as it continues to make its way around the moon, with that lunar flyby planned for tomorrow.
06/04/2026 - 10:27:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:52:23 (Artemis Clock) | Tomorrow on flight day six, now that that outbound trajectory correction burn is complete, teams will be maneuvering the Orion spacecraft into an attitude to be able to capture some opportunistic imaging.
06/04/2026 - 10:27:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:52:38 (Artemis Clock) | Line of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 10:32:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:57:00 (Artemis Clock) | Johnson Space Center coming to you live with our 24/7 continuous coverage of the Artemis 2 mission. I'm Niloufar Ramji with NASA Communications, and the team of Orbit 3 flight controllers are currently in the room planning the day ahead as the crew prepares to wake up in the next hour.
06/04/2026 - 10:32:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:57:16 (Artemis Clock) | and eighteen minutes counting down. We are at a mission elapsed time of four days, fourteen hours, and fifty-six minutes and counting.
06/04/2026 - 10:32:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:57:29 (Artemis Clock) | The Orion spacecraft, called Integrity, is 243 miles away from Earth and just 21,000 miles away from the Moon, which is our big plan for today.
06/04/2026 - 10:32:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:57:44 (Artemis Clock) | The crew aboard Orion, as well as those currently in mission control, as well as the multiple backrooms supporting the mission, are incredibly excited for the various milestones that the crew will be experiencing today. That first milestone.
06/04/2026 - 10:33:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:58:04 (Artemis Clock) | begins with the Apollo distance record. The Apollo distance record signifies the furthest humans have ever traveled away from Earth. That distance record is coming up in about 4 hours, 26 minutes, and counting. In addition to that, we will...
06/04/2026 - 10:33:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:58:17 (Artemis Clock) | It will also conduct a lunar flyby, and that lunar flyby period is going to be happening in about nine and a half hours and counting.
06/04/2026 - 10:34:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:59:27 (Artemis Clock) | The crew observed the same regions that we're going to see a little bit later today multiple times under changing lighting conditions during a single flyby, so they're getting perspectives that would take robotic missions years to accumulate. The audio descriptions that you'll hear later today.
06/04/2026 - 10:34:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:14:59:47 (Artemis Clock) | The situational reports, or what we call SITREPs, and crew annotations will provide essential context that enhances the scientific value of imagery. There are about 30 targets included. They are tied to past robotic missions, current science priorities,
06/04/2026 - 10:53:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:18:27 (Artemis Clock) | into the lunar flyby. And that's all going to be driven by this lunar targeting plan, or LTP, I might refer to it as. And so Kelsey showed this at the briefing yesterday, if folks were watching, but we have a good screenshot here. And so this is what the crew is going to be using to step through the...
06/04/2026 - 10:53:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:18:46 (Artemis Clock) | there's observational targets that we have for them. So you see those listed in the upper left. There's some examples there. There's a total of 30 of those operational targets that they'll be stepping through as they go around the moon. And then some of those targets will also be during the eclipse time. It's all.
06/04/2026 - 10:54:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:19:03 (Artemis Clock) | all spread out over five different shifts where the crew will be at different places inside the cabin. So some will be up at the window two and three, the center windows, and then some crew will be supporting as they are making those observations. And then they switch out.
06/04/2026 - 10:54:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:19:19 (Artemis Clock) | throughout those observational shifts between those five that I mentioned. Excellent. That is very helpful to understand. I have one follow-up question to the lunar targeting plan. We have what we called LOS and AOS, and we see this a lot with the space station.
06/04/2026 - 10:54:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:19:41 (Artemis Clock) | And the acquisition of signal. If I remember correctly, we won't hear from the crew as they go through the far side for about 40 minutes, is that right? Yeah, that's approximately right. So once Earth starts to set, we get into that LOS time, and so they'll be making observations still and recording those on their...
06/04/2026 - 10:55:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:20:51 (Artemis Clock) | eclipsed by the moon. And so by that I mean we see like the whole solar corona that kind of peeks out, that ring that we see. Folks have been able to experience that here on Earth. The Integrity crew is going to be much closer to the moon at that time. So they're going to see the sun
06/04/2026 - 10:56:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:21:09 (Artemis Clock) | this small disk disappear behind the moon for about that 50-minute period and then pop back out 50 minutes later. And so they have more of a time to enjoy the sun setting and the sun rising. But also the unique part of that is, you know, they'll be able to...
06/04/2026 - 10:56:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:21:38 (Artemis Clock) | observe the moon during that time with the sun out of view. And so we have some unique targets that we're also looking forward to them capturing during that time. That's fantastic. And as you're speaking, I'm realizing it is April 2026, and in April 2024 was when we in North America here experienced
06/04/2026 - 10:56:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:21:55 (Artemis Clock) | that total eclipse that took place where we had to wear specific protective eyewear and we saw that corona that you described. Will the crew have to wear anything protective as they're experiencing the eclipse? Will they have to roll up their windows? How does that work? Yeah, we do have some protective eyewear, much like what...
06/04/2026 - 10:57:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:22:13 (Artemis Clock) | Folks wore for some of the Earth eclipse, and so they'll be using that just to make sure that we're high safe during those times when Earth is setting and when Earth is rising. And then as soon as it peaks behind or goes behind the moon and peaks back out when it starts to rise again, they'll be making these incredible observations.
06/04/2026 - 10:57:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:22:29 (Artemis Clock) | that we're super excited about. I can't wait for all of these pictures to come down so we can share them with all of you watching. You talked about Earth Rise, Earth Set, and Earth Rise. So I described a little bit about what Earth Rise is. So just for everybody watching, Earth Set, can you talk a little bit about that?
06/04/2026 - 10:57:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:22:45 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, that'll be, actually, of all these, you know, sunset, sunrise, or the Earth set—sorry, I got this confused—the Earth set will be happening first. And so it'll be during that fourth observational period.
06/04/2026 - 10:58:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:23:02 (Artemis Clock) | Earth set will be kind of peaking, you know, it'll come, the earth will show up in our window, come across our window, and then we'll see it go behind the Moon. So I know the team, the CER, the science evaluation room is really excited about that time. I think it's going to hit everybody emotionally in a little bit different way.
06/04/2026 - 10:59:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:24:09 (Artemis Clock) | the crew conference on flight day seven and get some of the information that may be timely back from the crew before they land on, you know, splashdown on flight day ten. So a large team supporting you here on console, and then we have Kelsey Young coming on for Orbit one and Angela Garcia.
06/04/2026 - 10:59:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:24:24 (Artemis Clock) | for Orbit 2, along with a large team that's going to be watching, cheering you on. We can't wait to see the surge. We'll have views in the surge, just like we have here in Mission Control. Trevor, good luck today. I'm not going to congratulate you until after the fact, but just really exciting to be here on the heels of flight day 6.
06/04/2026 - 10:59:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:24:43 (Artemis Clock) | So we'll continue to provide you live coverage of that lunar flyby. That's coming up, I'm just looking at my board, in just under nine hours or just over nine hours from now. As mentioned, we are at a mission elapsed time of…
06/04/2026 - 10:59:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:15:24:58 (Artemis Clock) | Four days, 15 hours, 24 minutes and counting and this is Mission Control Houston where we will continue to provide you live 24/7 coverage.
06/04/2026 - 11:37:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:02:25 (Artemis Clock) | share with the group this morning. First off, we will be passing our Apollo 13 distance record, that's the furthest humans have traveled away from Earth. That is scheduled to take place today at a mission elapsed time of 5 days, 30 minutes.
06/04/2026 - 11:37:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:02:38 (Artemis Clock) | will reach a max distance from Earth of 252,021 statute miles. This will surpass the Apollo 13 distance record by 3,366 statute miles.
06/04/2026 - 11:37:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:02:56 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity is currently on a trajectory that will carry it to the closest approach to the Moon of four thousand seventy statute miles. That's the closest the vehicle will get to the moon.
06/04/2026 - 11:38:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:03:12 (Artemis Clock) | In addition to that, the spacecraft will be traveling at a speed of 60,863 miles relative to Earth, but that's just a little bit different because we are actually in the lunar sphere of influence and the vehicle is being pulled by the moon's gravity.
06/04/2026 - 11:38:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:03:31 (Artemis Clock) | So that velocity is actually reduced since Orion is in that sphere of influence. This means that Orion will be traveling only at 3,139 miles an hour relative to the moon. Once we complete the lunar
06/04/2026 - 11:38:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:03:47 (Artemis Clock) | After flyby today, we will depart the lunar sphere of influence which will take place tomorrow, and we will be captured by Earth's gravitational pull. Essentially what that means is that as that pull gets stronger and stronger during our return to Earth, this will speed up the vehicle to make
06/04/2026 - 11:39:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:04:12 (Artemis Clock) | swing around the moon and head back home and splash down off the coast of the Pacific. We'll continue to provide live updates for you here from Mission Control. The crew is scheduled to wake up from their sleep period in about 11 minutes and counting. For now, this is Mission Control.
06/04/2026 - 11:39:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:04:32 (Artemis Clock) | Houston.
06/04/2026 - 11:42:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:07:45 (Artemis Clock) | This is Mission Control Houston here in the Artemis flight control room. At a mission elapsed time of four days, 16 hours, and seven minutes, I wanted to provide a quick update on the different milestones and times today that we will experience the lunar flyby. Today is Monday, April 6th, and we are...
06/04/2026 - 11:43:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:08:01 (Artemis Clock) | We're in Houston, so that is in central daylight time. At 12:56 p.m., Integrity will pass the Apollo 13 distance record by humans of 248,655 statute miles from Earth.
06/04/2026 - 11:43:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:08:14 (Artemis Clock) | At 1:45 p.m. CDT, the lunar observation period will begin.
06/04/2026 - 11:43:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:08:29 (Artemis Clock) | The crew will complete some lunar observations before we enter the loss of signal period, which is scheduled for 5:44 p.m. Central time. This is when integrity begins its transit behind the moon.
06/04/2026 - 11:43:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:08:47 (Artemis Clock) | At 6:02 p.m., Integrity makes its closest approach to the moon at a distance of 4,070 miles. And at 6:07 p.m., Integrity reaches the farthest distance from Earth at a distance of 252,000 miles.
06/04/2026 - 11:44:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:09:03 (Artemis Clock) | That's about 4,105 miles further than Apollo 13.
06/04/2026 - 11:44:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:09:20 (Artemis Clock) | At 6:25 p.m., we get the acquisition of signal, which essentially means that Integrity will emerge from behind the moon and begin its journey back to Earth. At 7:35 p.m., the solar eclipse period will begin.
06/04/2026 - 11:44:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:09:36 (Artemis Clock) | And at 8:20 p.m. the lunar observation period will end. Finally, at 8:32 p.m. the solar eclipse period will end. Now all of this is happening after the crew entered the lunar sphere of influence.
06/04/2026 - 11:44:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:09:49 (Artemis Clock) | in their pre-sleep period. Tomorrow, on Tuesday, April 7th at 12:25 p.m. Central Daylight Time, Integrity will exit the lunar sphere of influence. This will happen when Integrity is at 41,070
06/04/2026 - 11:45:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:10:16 (Artemis Clock) | 2 miles from the moon. This is when Earth's gravitational pull will increase the velocity of the vehicle to speed up and enter, re-enter Earth's atmosphere and splash down off the coast of the Pacific. For now
06/04/2026 - 11:45:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:10:28 (Artemis Clock) | This is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 11:55:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:20:16 (Artemis Clock) | Holly good Earth.
06/04/2026 - 11:56:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:21:34 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, Reid. For the toilet, we did see your sleep crew note from overnight about the toilet, and we did power cycle it while you were sleeping. So you are go to activate the toilet, and if it starts up, let it run for 60 seconds. If you have no fault lights...
06/04/2026 - 11:56:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:21:53 (Artemis Clock) | You're go to use toilet, and please report if you have any off-nominal signatures. And additionally, we were able to get the wastewater tank down to 66%, so it can be used, and we've re-enabled the wastewater dump required caution for your awareness should the tank level reach 80%.
06/04/2026 - 11:57:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:22:14 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, we'll start it up, let it run for 60, and then see, and then just confirm secondary dump lines are all warmed up.
06/04/2026 - 11:57:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:22:32 (Artemis Clock) | Affirm, secondary lines are all warmed up and you're go to dump.
06/04/2026 - 11:57:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:22:48 (Artemis Clock) | All right, thank you. And then, switching gears, that was an awesome message from Jim Lovell, and very cool to hear him. Welcome us to the neighborhood. It's gonna be a great day. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 11:58:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:23:06 (Artemis Clock) | Concur, yeah, I know it gave me chills. Definitely one of my heroes. We do have one other item for you for your awareness about an S-Band string swap we'd like to do soon. Following up on that S-Band string 2 item from yesterday, we want to do a string swap to string 2 to confirm it's a good
06/04/2026 - 11:58:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:23:24 (Artemis Clock) | We're going to do that from the ground. We'll command the swap to string 2, and also uplink bailout ST dem commands to swap back to string 1 in case string 2 is loss of comm.
06/04/2026 - 11:58:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:23:36 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, any correction there, or is it all ground commanding us? So, go ahead and knock it out whenever it's ready for you.
06/04/2026 - 11:58:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:23:49 (Artemis Clock) | No correction, and we'll go ahead and I'll set out from the ground. I'll probably give you a call back up with a voice check when we're done.
06/04/2026 - 11:59:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:24:03 (Artemis Clock) | Outstanding, thanks.
06/04/2026 - 11:59:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:24:17 (Artemis Clock) | Excuse me, before we leave here, I was surprised that at least on the DUs, our flight plan does not say anything about stowing our SLV science kit this morning. Confirm we want to leave that out in the cabin today?
06/04/2026 - 11:59:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:24:30 (Artemis Clock) | Checking.
06/04/2026 - 12:00:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:25:47 (Artemis Clock) | The first set of saliva samples are going, can be stowed per the stowage note that's part of Victor's timeline activity at 18:25. The second set of samples will be temp stowed out in the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 12:01:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:26:08 (Artemis Clock) | Copy all six.
06/04/2026 - 12:02:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:27:14 (Artemis Clock) | The Integrity spacecraft marked the start of flight day six activities. We are at a mission elapsed time of four days, 16 hours, and 26 minutes and counting. The song you heard for flight day six was Good Morning by Mandisa featuring Toby Mac, as well as a message.
06/04/2026 - 12:02:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:27:31 (Artemis Clock) | message from Apollo 8 and 13 astronaut Jim Lovell. Apollo astronaut Jim Lovell is profoundly important to today's lunar flyby, and hearing his enduring voice wake the crew reminds us of the gravity of this moment. The message the crew heard was recorded
06/04/2026 - 12:02:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:27:44 (Artemis Clock) | Recorded months before Jim passed away on August 7, 2025. We thank his family for the opportunity to share his words with the crew today. As the pilot of Apollo 8, Jim and his crewmates became the first to lift off on a Saturn V rocket and orbit the moon.
06/04/2026 - 12:03:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:28:47 (Artemis Clock) | What a great message to kick off the day. This is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 12:08:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:33:31 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston for post-SBAN string swap voice check.
06/04/2026 - 12:08:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:33:42 (Artemis Clock) | Got you loud and clear on S-band two.
06/04/2026 - 12:08:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:33:54 (Artemis Clock) | Yep, Stream 2 is looking good, so we're going to remove those bailout commands.
06/04/2026 - 12:09:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:34:16 (Artemis Clock) | Yep, concur on Orion to Earth line. Okay, that's awesome. Everything looks good on board. I got so far as to take a single window shutter off and the moon looks amazing. Here at darkness is the brightest thing that I see on the entire surface and if I can pull myself away, I'm going to get to work at the post sleep.
06/04/2026 - 12:09:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:34:34 (Artemis Clock) | Sounds great, Reed. Thanks for that description. And we also wanted to let you know that you are go to perform the dock cam remove activity, no rush.
06/04/2026 - 12:09:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:34:49 (Artemis Clock) | Copy that, thanks.
06/04/2026 - 12:10:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:35:04 (Artemis Clock) | This is Mission Control. At a mission elapsed time of 4 days, 16 hours, 34 minutes, the crew has woken up and we are about 245,000 miles and counting away from Earth and about 18,000 miles away from the moon. You can see these live views coming through right now and the bright celestial object in front of us.
06/04/2026 - 12:10:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:35:19 (Artemis Clock) | is the moon. Counting down to our lunar flyby, we are 7 hours 53 minutes from the flyby conclusion.
06/04/2026 - 12:10:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:35:37 (Artemis Clock) | We are also two hours, 48 minutes and counting from our Apollo distance record.
06/04/2026 - 12:10:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:35:49 (Artemis Clock) | We will continue to bring you our live 24/7 continuous coverage of the Artemis II mission here from Mission Control.
06/04/2026 - 12:21:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:46:51 (Artemis Clock) | This mission, maximize that high-priority lunar science we just discussed, with a particular emphasis on far-side regions and features relevant to future exploration. The lunar science team developed a 360-degree target list covering the entire moon, allowing the mission to remain
06/04/2026 - 12:23:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:48:01 (Artemis Clock) | Now, the crew is going to be doing lunar observation where they will see the entire lunar disk. So from this higher vantage point, a little bit further away from the Apollo's lunar orbits, on average, astronauts can observe both poles and large-scale geologic features in a single view.
06/04/2026 - 12:23:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:48:15 (Artemis Clock) | Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 12:23:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:48:31 (Artemis Clock) | Based on the lighting conditions, as Artemis II astronauts will become the first humans to directly observe certain far side regions of the Moon with unaided eyes. Human eyes and trained judgment remain among the most powerful scientific tools.
06/04/2026 - 12:23:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:48:44 (Artemis Clock) | tools NASA can send to space. During this Artemis II mission, the crew has been able to quickly observe wide areas, adjust their focus in real time, and describe relationships between features, capabilities, that cameras and instruments alone cannot replicate.
06/04/2026 - 12:24:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:49:02 (Artemis Clock) | The crew observed the same regions multiple times under changing lighting conditions during a single flyby, providing perspectives here on the ground that would take robotic missions years to accumulate. Audio descriptions and situational reports -- you'll hear them called SITREPs
06/04/2026 - 12:24:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:49:17 (Artemis Clock) | As well as crew annotations will provide essential context that enhances the value of the scientific imagery.
06/04/2026 - 12:24:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:49:46 (Artemis Clock) | We will continue to provide live continuous coverage of the Artemis II mission here from the flight control room. For now, this is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 12:31:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:56:18 (Artemis Clock) | Use an integrity for image.
06/04/2026 - 12:31:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:56:36 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, Christina.
06/04/2026 - 12:31:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:56:51 (Artemis Clock) | Good morning, Amy. Great to hear your voice. Great to be working with you all today. We wanted to share what we're seeing out the window. There's one picture of the moon as it looks right now on PCD3 in images for downlink.
06/04/2026 - 12:32:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:16:57:07 (Artemis Clock) | Excellent, Christina, we will downlink that now and we look forward to seeing it.
06/04/2026 - 12:35:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:00:04 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, thanks for the data.
06/04/2026 - 12:42:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:07:15 (Artemis Clock) | We are getting ready for our lunar flyby today, which is happening today, flight day six. What I'm going to do is take a moment and explain some of the milestones that are coming up later on, and I will be doing this in central daylight time.
06/04/2026 - 12:42:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:07:31 (Artemis Clock) | At 12:56 p.m. Integrity passes the Apollo 13 distance record by humans. This will be at 248,655 statute miles from Earth. At 1:45 p.m. the lunar observation period begins.
06/04/2026 - 12:43:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:08:38 (Artemis Clock) | At 7:35 p.m., the solar eclipse period begins. At 8:20 p.m., the lunar observation period ends, and at 8:32 p.m., the solar eclipse period ends. Now, on flight day...
06/04/2026 - 12:44:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:09:02 (Artemis Clock) | In the crew's pre-sleep period, the Integrity crew or the Integrity spacecraft entered the lunar sphere of influence. This means that the moon's gravitational pull is now stronger than that of the Earth's. Integrity is currently 246,000 miles and counting away from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 12:44:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:09:19 (Artemis Clock) | from the Earth and just 17,000 miles away from the moon. Once the lunar flyby concludes, tomorrow, Tuesday, April 7th, at 12:25 p.m. Central Time, Integrity will exit the lunar sphere of influence.
06/04/2026 - 12:44:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:09:39 (Artemis Clock) | and will be about forty-one thousand seventy-two miles away from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 12:44:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:09:52 (Artemis Clock) | Once Integrity does exit that lunar sphere of influence, the Earth's gravitational pull will be stronger than that of the moon's. This means that pull will help speed up the spacecraft as it begins to splash down off the coast of the Pacific. For now, this is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 13:12:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:37:16 (Artemis Clock) | This is Mission Control Houston at a mission elapsed time of 4 days, 17 hours, 36 minutes and counting. We are coming to you live with our 24/7 continuous coverage. The Artemis II crew is currently in their pre-sleep period aboard the Orion spacecraft named Integrity. We are currently 246.
06/04/2026 - 13:12:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:37:53 (Artemis Clock) | 1,000 miles away from Earth and just over 16,000 miles away from the moon. We'll continue to follow operations along here in Mission Control. The Orbit 3 team has completed their handover and is handing things over to the Orbit 1 team. I'm Niloufar Ramji, and I'm handing things over to...
06/04/2026 - 13:13:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:38:07 (Artemis Clock) | To our Orbit 1 commentator Leah Cheshire Moustachio, who will take us through the next several hours as we kick off Flight Day 6 and fly around the moon with the Artemis II crew.
06/04/2026 - 13:13:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:38:22 (Artemis Clock) | For now, this is Mission Control Houston.
06/04/2026 - 13:16:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:41:15 (Artemis Clock) | The Artemis II crews fly around the moon. I'm NASA Public Affairs Officer Leah Cheshire Mastascio. We are currently 15,915 miles away from the moon and we have an exciting lunar tour set up for this historic day.
06/04/2026 - 13:16:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:41:29 (Artemis Clock) | From Reiner Gamma to the Oriental Basin, we are in lunar flyby.
06/04/2026 - 13:16:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:17:41:42 (Artemis Clock) | The Orbit 1 team is now on console, led by Flight Director Jeff Radian. CAPCOM today will be Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jenny Gibbons, a backup for the Artemis II crew.
06/04/2026 - 15:51:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:16:01 (Artemis Clock) | team members who have been preparing for this day for years.
06/04/2026 - 15:51:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:16:04 (Artemis Clock) | The crew has significantly darkened the cabin of Orion. This allows them better views outside the windows and fewer reflections from inside.
06/04/2026 - 15:51:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:16:18 (Artemis Clock) | They reported being able to hear the to see the moon and the Earth out the same window at this time. We are really hopeful to get those photos. Right now, this view on the left side of your screen coming from a camera mounted on one of the solar array wings on Orion outside the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 15:51:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:16:29 (Artemis Clock) | The crew is equipped with 80-400 mm zoom lenses.
06/04/2026 - 15:53:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:18:01 (Artemis Clock) | Members aboard Orion continue their warm-up discussion. However, they are about to be prompted to move on to discussion number two, which is nearside and farside.
06/04/2026 - 15:53:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:18:32 (Artemis Clock) | color, albedo, topography and texture. They also want the crew to compare the appearance of ray craters in the nearside mare versus in the farside highlands. Of course, a reminder that some of the items that the crew or some of the landmarks the crew are seeing today is the first time
06/04/2026 - 15:53:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:18:37 (Artemis Clock) | that humans have ever laid eyes on those portions of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 15:54:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:19:08 (Artemis Clock) | In the targeting package, there are a few reminders of the crew. For the crew, there are time-sensitive observation reminders and science sitrep reminders.
06/04/2026 - 15:54:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:19:30 (Artemis Clock) | near-side, far-side, near-side comparison and hearing some great discussion of browns and greens in the Aristarchus Plateau and how those disappear as you go toward the North Pole. And then over to the far side, you lose the color. You've got Jeremy in window 2, Reed in window 2.
06/04/2026 - 15:54:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:19:56 (Artemis Clock) | documenting the discussion, and we've got the lights completely off in the cabin. There are some LEDs that we cannot put out that do provide some light scatter, but we have all of the internal lights off, and...
06/04/2026 - 15:55:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:20:22 (Artemis Clock) | Window four view, you only get about a third of the moon. Tycho is going to go over the horizon soon, and you can see Aristarchus, and then you start to lose the view as you go to the west in Oceanus Procellarum.
06/04/2026 - 15:55:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:20:38 (Artemis Clock) | So far the team is on the plan, and the long lens is being put to good use and recordings are being made and internal documentation of the configuration and...
06/04/2026 - 15:55:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:20:49 (Artemis Clock) | The observation is ongoing. Science, do you have any questions for us at this time?
06/04/2026 - 15:56:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:21:06 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity science, Victor, very glad that you provided the first formal science SITREP as these were indeed your idea. One follow-up question: any relationship between those browns and greens you described? Do you see them blending into one another, and do you see any topography associated with that?
06/04/2026 - 15:56:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:21:11 (Artemis Clock) | either color.
06/04/2026 - 15:56:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:21:28 (Artemis Clock) | I don't want to bother the window team. I just heard that, overheard that, and so I'm sorry I don't have that detail yet. I will eavesdrop and see if I can pick that up. I will try to answer that at some point. I also heard a comparison of the albedo.
06/04/2026 - 15:56:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:21:44 (Artemis Clock) | in Eratosthenes, that crater, the very high albedo spot you can see on the nearside, there is a feature called, I believe,
06/04/2026 - 15:57:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:22:10 (Artemis Clock) | I apologize for the gaps, I'm trying to listen and talk at the same time, but I will try to get some more information to correlate those colors from airstarkis for you.
06/04/2026 - 15:57:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:22:31 (Artemis Clock) | really helpful for the science team. Keep them coming. Thanks.
06/04/2026 - 15:57:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:22:43 (Artemis Clock) | I also heard a discussion about the albedo of Grimaldi being a ten, and how many of us when we were a little further away saw that as the darkest albedo, and that the big mare off to the west, sorry, to the east, was seven.
06/04/2026 - 15:58:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:23:03 (Artemis Clock) | And now even on the west side, there's still a very dark part of it. But it is still the darkest, it is just not as uniform as it looked when we were farther away. We're starting to differentiate the striations of albedo inside of Grimaldi.
06/04/2026 - 15:58:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:23:15 (Artemis Clock) | Copy all, Victor, and you read our mind. Superlatives, like darkest, biggist, are really, really helpful for us, so keep those coming.
06/04/2026 - 15:59:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:24:01 (Artemis Clock) | As we were just mentioning, the crew is slated to perform these science SITREPs. They are prompted to do so by an icon in their lunar targeting plan.
06/04/2026 - 15:59:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:24:07 (Artemis Clock) | That one coming down from NASA astronaut and pilot of Artemis II, Victor Glover.
06/04/2026 - 15:59:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:24:43 (Artemis Clock) | to ask any questions that the team may have.
06/04/2026 - 15:59:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:24:49 (Artemis Clock) | To her right is Trevor Graf. He is one of three science officers. Those would be Kelsey Young, Trevor Graf, and Angela Garcia, who will also join us later for an interview.
06/04/2026 - 16:00:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:25:53 (Artemis Clock) | And Houston Integrity was able to get a view out of window 1, which is a beautiful view. I can see the entire moon that they're looking at. We left the t-shirt up there, so I was kind of peeking through the opening in the makeshift trial there.
06/04/2026 - 16:01:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:26:18 (Artemis Clock) | It's clear of the terminator now, but it just really jumps out because it's still got the low light, the low sun angle. And so where the, you know, Avalov has that impact over the top of another crater, where the two craters intersect on the eastern edge, so on the side closest.
06/04/2026 - 16:01:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:26:40 (Artemis Clock) | To orient all, where the two crater rings intersect, the shadow there is the highest peak in the interior of that Olob. And so you can see that terrain is, there's some real variation in the terrain there, that there's a nice peak where those peaks intersect, I'm sorry, where those rings intersect.
06/04/2026 - 16:01:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:26:45 (Artemis Clock) | And we'll get a picture of that.
06/04/2026 - 16:02:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:27:05 (Artemis Clock) | After observations, do feel free to remove the t-shirt shroud from window one.
06/04/2026 - 16:02:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:27:09 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, absolutely, we will do. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 16:02:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:27:38 (Artemis Clock) | Those calls coming from NASA astronaut Victor Glover. As we discussed, the crew is working in pairs at the windows. Right now, taking photos are Commander Reid Wiseman and Mission Specialist Jeremy Hansen. Serving as their support team are Pilot Victor Glover and Mission Specialist.
06/04/2026 - 16:03:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:28:09 (Artemis Clock) | Windows 1 and 4 are available for the support crew to fly up to, obviously look at the moon themselves, and provide these science situational reports.
06/04/2026 - 16:03:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:28:20 (Artemis Clock) | The view on your screen is part of the lunar targeting package, and it's something that the crew can reference as they are flying by, but this is an animation.
06/04/2026 - 16:03:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:28:48 (Artemis Clock) | You also heard Glover mention Orientale. Orientale is a major feature that the team is interested in today, and it's known as the Grand Canyon of the Moon. Until this mission, the Orientale basin had never been seen in sunlight by human eyes.
06/04/2026 - 16:03:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:28:53 (Artemis Clock) | Basin and its surrounding ejecta could fit within a straight line distance from NASA's Johnson Space Center, where we are at today, to Kennedy Space Center.
06/04/2026 - 16:04:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:29:25 (Artemis Clock) | where the teams are monitoring all systems, not just for today's flyby, but on the spacecraft themselves. Again, this is a test flight, our very first flight of humans on the Orion spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 16:04:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:29:51 (Artemis Clock) | Splashdown and crew recovery from the Pacific.
06/04/2026 - 16:05:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:30:02 (Artemis Clock) | This is a visualization from ARO, the Artemis Real-Time Orbit website that you can also access at any time by visiting nasa.gov/trackartemis, showing us that we are now under 10,000 miles from the moon, 9,948 to be specific, and continuing to countdown.
06/04/2026 - 16:05:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:30:28 (Artemis Clock) | Again, our closest approach to the moon today should come about 6:02 p.m. Central, 7:02 p.m. Eastern. However, we will be out of contact with the crew at this time as they begin transiting behind the moon. At that time of closest approach, the distance from Orion to the lunar surface...
06/04/2026 - 16:05:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:30:40 (Artemis Clock) | this will be about 4,070 miles. Of course, these are estimates at this time, and we'll be sure to provide you with the official numbers once that closest approach has been reached.
06/04/2026 - 16:06:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:31:12 (Artemis Clock) | spacecraft where our four crew members are continuing with their lunar flyby activities. They have just begun those activities really about 20 minutes ago, so we've got several hours of moon view opportunities. This is still a live view inside that capsule. However, you can see just how dark they have turned down the lights.
06/04/2026 - 16:06:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:31:37 (Artemis Clock) | This also prevents any reflections from inside the spacecraft bouncing up on the windows and interfering with their photography.
06/04/2026 - 16:07:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:32:47 (Artemis Clock) | As we were previously discussing, the crew members are serving on teams, the first team being Commander Reid Wiseman and Mission Specialist Jeremy Hansen, at the windows photographing what they see. We heard reports earlier that they could see both the moon and the Earth in the same view, and we are looking forward to seeing the moon and the Earth.
06/04/2026 - 16:07:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:32:57 (Artemis Clock) | in the same view as well, that Earth set coming up in just a few hours.
06/04/2026 - 16:08:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:33:18 (Artemis Clock) | They are able to assist with cameras. They are also providing those situation reports, letting us know how the team is working inside the spacecraft, what they are seeing, and how they are feeling about it.
06/04/2026 - 16:08:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:33:34 (Artemis Clock) | Those first blocks of teams will last about an hour, and the crew members are approaching the halfway point into their first observation block. And reminder, we have five of those blocks today. So they're approaching this halfway point during which the crew at the window will switch roles. One will begin taking pictures, and the other will be...
06/04/2026 - 16:08:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:33:57 (Artemis Clock) | be making annotations on their PCD, that's Portable Computing Device. Both of those crew members at the windows are recording audio of what they see. They are putting on headsets and recording audio into their Portable Computing Devices. Obviously, we are not hearing this right now. This is going to be sent down to the science...
06/04/2026 - 16:09:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:34:01 (Artemis Clock) | team and they will be able to analyze that at a later time.
06/04/2026 - 16:09:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:34:25 (Artemis Clock) | 40 minutes from now, we will have the teams switch. That means Pilot Victor Glover and... Looking out of window one, I think I may have misreported earlier saying that it was Tycho going over the horizon. That was Copernicus I was referring to. Apologies, it was Copernicus.
06/04/2026 - 16:09:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:34:47 (Artemis Clock) | This is what is farthest bounding to the east, and that is now, like, on the horizon or just past it. And the Coralev is now a few degrees from going over the horizon, and then, you know, next it'll be Aristarchus, Aristarchus Plato.
06/04/2026 - 16:10:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:35:03 (Artemis Clock) | And so, on the west, we are getting a much better view of the terminator. It looks like we have about 80% illumination of the moon. And Vavilov and one Vavilov diameter to the west is where the terminator is.
06/04/2026 - 16:10:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:35:30 (Artemis Clock) | The illuminated part of the moon is to the lower part is Orientale. And just around Orientale, a lot of light structure is starting to show up. A lot of high albedo, similar to...
06/04/2026 - 16:11:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:36:02 (Artemis Clock) | It's almost as if the edges are starting to dry up and turn white. If it was something that was wet and got dry, the edges would be the part to dry first. You just kind of outline all the topography in the interior of that wall is like it was dusted with chalk or it's starting to dry.
06/04/2026 - 16:11:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:36:19 (Artemis Clock) | Or maybe dusted with snow. If this was the Earth, I would say there was snow dumped on some of the ridges on the interior of the rings of Orientale. Also, an interesting part of the discussion that I heard between Reed and Jeremy is that from...
06/04/2026 - 16:11:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:36:44 (Artemis Clock) | that looked like commas, but in the wrong direction, but there's also a lot of interestingness, just a lot of geometry and squiggles and dots and lines that are starting to stand out as more small features come into view.
06/04/2026 - 16:12:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:37:10 (Artemis Clock) | Sample have on the southern edge of the larger one, the one that's further to the south, is a very dark, the one albedo, like the southern and western part of Grimaldi. And the one to the north, closer to Glushko, is also that same dark albedo. And then around in
06/04/2026 - 16:12:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:37:43 (Artemis Clock) | approaching the 10, a nine or a 10 like Aristarchus, and lots of little bright spots just starting to pop up in this view. To the north, as you look up at the north pole, there is a very distinct crater with a lot of
06/04/2026 - 16:13:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:38:09 (Artemis Clock) | It's a very, very high albedo, and I will go look and find the name of that feature if I can look that up. And then to the south, really getting some interesting geography and topography in the south pole Aitken basin. And the view of the...
06/04/2026 - 16:13:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:38:31 (Artemis Clock) | South pole is quite amazing. We've got some terminator there, as well as the limb view, and there is a very distinct crater right at the south pole. And I'm gonna go look up, I don't believe that is a...
06/04/2026 - 16:14:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:39:02 (Artemis Clock) | all of these interesting albedo variations that are popping up in the interior, but that's the view that we see just about a ball off diameter to the west beyond is where the terminator is. Just beyond, I think Copernicus is the easternmost feature that we can see.
06/04/2026 - 16:14:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:39:18 (Artemis Clock) | a very nice ringed, very nice structure crater to the north with a great high albedo central uplift to the north and the south is dotted by a very characteristic crater.
06/04/2026 - 16:14:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:39:40 (Artemis Clock) | with a lot of terrain shadow features, and I will go try to find some landmarks to put names with those. Any questions for the observation team? Integrity Science, love the descriptions. You're definitely looking odd up there. Appreciate it.
06/04/2026 - 16:15:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:40:07 (Artemis Clock) | Any observations you want to make, especially when you get on, you know, the PCD in a little bit, would really help us tease out the differences in those dark mare deposits. Great description, Victor. Keep them coming.
06/04/2026 - 16:15:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:40:18 (Artemis Clock) | Absolutely will do, and I know you've got descriptions on both of the window observers right now as well. Keep it coming.
06/04/2026 - 16:16:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:41:26 (Artemis Clock) | Victor Glover calling down a situation report, noting several different features on the moon and such descriptions, even saying that it looks like snow on some of the peaks. Obviously, we do not expect that to be snow, but referencing that as some of the lighting on how it looks.
06/04/2026 - 16:16:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:41:31 (Artemis Clock) | to the Artemis II crew from their current position.
06/04/2026 - 16:17:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:42:09 (Artemis Clock) | to be switching their positions at the windows now. Both Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen have been at Windows 2 and 3, one taking photos, one making observations and annotations on their portable computing device.
06/04/2026 - 16:17:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:42:14 (Artemis Clock) | At this time, we also anticipate that they are looking at a crater duo.
06/04/2026 - 16:17:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:42:31 (Artemis Clock) | One of those is Glushko and the other is Ohm. The team is looking to know the extent of Glushko's ray system and how its rays differ in the mare versus the highlands. They also want the team to compare the ray systems of Glushko to Ohm.
06/04/2026 - 16:18:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:43:08 (Artemis Clock) | a photo of the Richat Structure. It's also known as the Eye of the Sahara. It's 40 kilometers in diameter and that could fit within Oum's interior.
06/04/2026 - 16:18:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:43:19 (Artemis Clock) | The team is specifically interested in descriptions of that ray visibility including the color (albedo) remember albedo is the brightness or the surface reflection, and the reach.
06/04/2026 - 16:18:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:43:41 (Artemis Clock) | Again, I am using the same lunar targeting package that the crew is referencing on board right now. This helps keep them on time as well as prompt them for when they need to make a call down to the science team and report what they're saying. It also gives them reminders of when they need to swap positions at the windows. Additionally, I'm using the Artemis 2
06/04/2026 - 16:18:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:43:58 (Artemis Clock) | lunar science passport developed by Amber Turner and the Artemis II lunar science team. Now this passport did not fly with the crew, but they used it extensively as a study guide here on Earth. So a lot of the descriptions and comparisons you hear today are developed directly by the science team.
06/04/2026 - 16:19:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:44:43 (Artemis Clock) | And what I wanted to highlight about that is it is either a very distinct central uplift or just a very defined area of high albedo. If a majority of the crater, especially the floor of the crater, is
06/04/2026 - 16:20:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:45:10 (Artemis Clock) | I now veto of two, maybe three, but it is very bright and it stands out. And in between that crater and the actual what is the horizon from here, there seems to be another crater right on the horizon. And right...
06/04/2026 - 16:20:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:45:32 (Artemis Clock) | On the edge of that is another patch of that albedo. It seems to be between the two craters. It's hard to tell from this grazing angle, but there is another spot just further north, beyond Tethys, between the two. I can draw a picture of this one and show you where that very high albedo again, another two.
06/04/2026 - 16:20:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:45:38 (Artemis Clock) | Albedo, surrounded by five and most of the area bounding it.
06/04/2026 - 16:21:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:46:03 (Artemis Clock) | And as a follow-up to your previous report, the CIR had questions about topography comparisons between the North Pole and the South Pole of the moon, if you're willing to provide words on that.
06/04/2026 - 16:21:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:46:24 (Artemis Clock) | Topography comparisons, absolutely, and if you have any idea of what, if you draw a line between the Thagaris and the western edge of the outer defined ring of Orientale, it intersects.
06/04/2026 - 16:22:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:47:33 (Artemis Clock) | And in the north, it seems to me that from sort of the edge of the mare that's dark, which is maybe one Pythagoras diameter south, if you draw a ring about...
06/04/2026 - 16:22:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:47:59 (Artemis Clock) | It looks quite smooth from here. And then along the same edge of the mare, the edge of the mare that kind of Grimaldi is just outside of, Glushko is just outside of, Carroll crater is just outside of, and you start to see the stark differences between the darker 7/8 and the 5s and 6s.
06/04/2026 - 16:23:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:48:30 (Artemis Clock) | On the edge of the mare that you can see from Earth, draw that line roughly the midpoint of all that straight to the North Pole, and on the side facing the Earth, you see smoother topography dotted by Pythagoras and its next-door neighbor crater. And then on the far side, you see a lot more...
06/04/2026 - 16:23:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:48:55 (Artemis Clock) | Being afraid I'm a little terminated there, but I am seeing a variation in the topography. It seems to be more jagged and a more challenging place to find a place to land and to even traverse in the south, all around.
06/04/2026 - 16:24:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:49:26 (Artemis Clock) | You really help paint a contextual picture of what you're looking at. We really appreciate the way that you're guiding us into the areas you're seeing by drawing comparisons between recognizable features. Thanks for that.
06/04/2026 - 16:24:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:49:57 (Artemis Clock) | And Kelsey, another little science sit-rep moment, something I just heard from the window team is, the more I look at the moon, the browner and browner it looks. I thought that was an interesting observation. The two observers have been on timeline, no hardware issues. They did start to talk a little bit.
06/04/2026 - 16:25:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:50:08 (Artemis Clock) | about another feature that you'll hear more about on the recordings that they call the handprint. That was at the end of their galushko, and before they moved into their current target, they thought that was worth chatting a little bit more about. And they're preparing to switch after this.
06/04/2026 - 16:25:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:50:13 (Artemis Clock) | Houston copies and concurs.
06/04/2026 - 16:25:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:50:57 (Artemis Clock) | Well this is a very taxing event on the eyes, looking out the window and seeing the very bright moon, then coming back inside to the dark cabin and trying to work cameras and microphones and logistics and lunch and those kinds of things, and then looking at the PCD which is dimly lit, it's just been an exercise.
06/04/2026 - 16:26:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:51:13 (Artemis Clock) | But it is a difficult thing to manage, and I'm up and down on the glasses and then having to wait as my eyes adjust when I come back in. As soon as I look back into the cabin from looking out the window, I can feel my eyes adjusting and I just have to work through it as they adjust.
06/04/2026 - 16:26:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:51:30 (Artemis Clock) | Appreciate that report, Victor, and know that we are prepared to read you up targets from the ground if that would give you the ability to keep your eyes focused on the moon and not having to swap between that and the PCD. Just let us know.
06/04/2026 - 16:26:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:51:51 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, we appreciate that science, and we will also do that for the window teams, and we'll back each other up that way as well, but we appreciate that. We may take you up on that. Thanks.
06/04/2026 - 16:26:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:51:58 (Artemis Clock) | continued detailed descriptions from the Artemis II crew aboard Orion.
06/04/2026 - 16:27:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:52:26 (Artemis Clock) | Every detail, even that it's difficult to look outside the window and then back at the PCD, that portable computing device, every single detail is appreciated as we prepare for future missions. Glover also mentioned that he is now wearing his glasses now that he's in space and that his eyes have shifted a bit.
06/04/2026 - 16:27:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:52:45 (Artemis Clock) | is something that happens when our astronauts go to space. There is a fluid shift from the lower half of your body up into your head, and that can cause changes in your eyes. It's something that we have seen over time for some crew members, especially now that we have been living and working on the International Space Station for over 25 years.
06/04/2026 - 16:27:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:52:49 (Artemis Clock) | years.
06/04/2026 - 16:28:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:53:18 (Artemis Clock) | Even took place in analog environments like the Icelandic Highlands and the Karrassassin impact crater in Labrador where crews practiced identifying and describing geologic features under varying conditions.
06/04/2026 - 16:28:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:53:49 (Artemis Clock) | three-dimensional space management with an inflatable moon globe to simulate the flyby. And while on Earth, the crew also used that small lunar passport that I mentioned with descriptions, photos, and prompts to help them study the features we hope they'll see. Now this is a view from their lunar targeting package at this time, helping them determine...
06/04/2026 - 16:28:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:53:55 (Artemis Clock) | What they're seeing on the moon, as well as on the left, keep up with what their next target will be. As you can see, we have got a long list and an exciting day ahead of us.
06/04/2026 - 16:29:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:54:26 (Artemis Clock) | It's now been four days, 20 hours, and 53 minutes since Orion launched atop the Space Launch System rocket from Kennedy Space Center in Florida with our four crew members aboard: NASA astronauts Reid Wiseman, Victor Glover, and Christina Koch, and Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen.
06/04/2026 - 16:29:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:54:56 (Artemis Clock) | Today, when they passed the Apollo 13 distance record at 12:57 p.m. Central, 1:57 p.m. Eastern, that Apollo 13 distance record was 248,655 statute miles from Earth. And Houston, another observation, whole moon. When you look at
06/04/2026 - 16:30:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:55:23 (Artemis Clock) | new craters. Some of them are super tiny. Most of them are pretty small. There's a couple that really stand out, obviously. And what it really looks like is like a lampshade with tiny pinprick holes and the light shining through. They are so bright.
06/04/2026 - 16:30:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:55:26 (Artemis Clock) | compared to the rest of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 16:30:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:55:49 (Artemis Clock) | one down, so keep it up.
06/04/2026 - 16:31:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:56:32 (Artemis Clock) | 48,655 statute miles from Earth and Orion now 250,294 miles away from our home planet. The spacecraft is 9,033 miles away from the moon and growing ever closer. At its closest approach, it will be about 4,000 and...
06/04/2026 - 16:31:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:56:57 (Artemis Clock) | and an estimate ahead of that moment. We're anticipating them to make that closest approach at 6:02 p.m. Central, 7:02 Eastern, when they are in a loss of signal, transiting behind the moon. They will be the first humans in over 50 years to fly behind the moon and lose contact with Earth.
06/04/2026 - 16:32:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:57:08 (Artemis Clock) | We will regain that contact about 40 minutes later as they reconnect to the Deep Space Network, emerging from behind the moon, and we will look forward to seeing an Earth rise.
06/04/2026 - 16:32:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:57:28 (Artemis Clock) | A portion on their timeline.
06/04/2026 - 16:32:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:57:48 (Artemis Clock) | Passengers at the window have swapped positions.
06/04/2026 - 16:33:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:20:58:40 (Artemis Clock) | Those voices will change in about thirty minutes when they take a turn taking photos and making annotations while at the window.
06/04/2026 - 16:35:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:00:07 (Artemis Clock) | Houston, Integrity, I wanted to provide an observation or a little bit of...
06/04/2026 - 16:35:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:00:44 (Artemis Clock) | It looks completely different than the normal view we have of the near side. It is the most striking feature of the western limb view that we had. And the mountain chains that form its eastern side are very prominent, but they actually stand out.
06/04/2026 - 16:36:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:01:16 (Artemis Clock) | the impact basin. And it's a... I just don't think I had had enough chance to describe how striking it was on that western limb view as we were coming in a couple days ago.
06/04/2026 - 16:36:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:01:41 (Artemis Clock) | and looking for evidence of that beautiful topography you just said. Thanks for those words.
06/04/2026 - 16:38:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:03:10 (Artemis Clock) | The view on your screen coming from Orion, a camera mounted on the spacecraft's solar array wing.
06/04/2026 - 16:38:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:03:40 (Artemis Clock) | Question and a comment. Question: is it possible that we're seeing Schrodinger Basin from this vantage point in the terminator at the south pole? And the comment is...
06/04/2026 - 16:39:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:04:02 (Artemis Clock) | The rays coming out of Aum are less distinct. We are not seeing the bright rays coming out of it, but the sort of 9 o'clock wedge that is formed by the change in albedo from the interior portion that is to the northeast to the surrounding...
06/04/2026 - 16:39:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:04:28 (Artemis Clock) | I think that interior, you got some great descriptions from the two at the window about the colors in there, but in that darker part in that wedge, you've got some really interesting color, even though the rays, the distinct difference in the albedo almost look like rays, but it's not the rays coming out, it's just changing that albedo.
06/04/2026 - 16:39:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:04:33 (Artemis Clock) | ido
06/04/2026 - 16:39:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:04:45 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Science, that is very intriguing, those color rays coming out of OM rather than sort of albedo. And as answer to your question, we do not think you can see Schrodinger. It's in darkness as of now. But thanks for that.
06/04/2026 - 16:39:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:04:50 (Artemis Clock) | home description, and it sounds like the pair at the window's got great descriptions that we're definitely going to dive into tonight.
06/04/2026 - 16:40:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:05:16 (Artemis Clock) | If you could help me out, I would still love to know what it is they're saying. Very nice crater. I'd like to have a lot of pictures of it. What would be right in the terminator at the south pole, or close to the south pole, where it's intersecting the terminator right now?
06/04/2026 - 16:40:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:05:37 (Artemis Clock) | 70 percent down from the North Pole, is that where you're looking?
06/04/2026 - 16:40:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:05:42 (Artemis Clock) | Contact, yes, that is where I'm looking.
06/04/2026 - 16:41:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:06:03 (Artemis Clock) | Required. We have hit our limit. As expected, no crew action.
06/04/2026 - 16:41:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:06:06 (Artemis Clock) | Copy no correction.
06/04/2026 - 16:41:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:06:20 (Artemis Clock) | You are an integrity science. We're trying to figure out what you're looking at there. Is it like right on the terminator, or is it in the illuminated portion next to the terminator?
06/04/2026 - 16:42:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:07:02 (Artemis Clock) | While we wait for a response from the crew, the terminator is that difference between day and night, or brightness and darkness, that you see on the moon.
06/04/2026 - 16:42:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:07:34 (Artemis Clock) | So, through the southern tangent of Oriental, that line would almost perfectly intersect tangentially the crater that I'm talking about, and it is on the terminator. So yeah, I think I'm not looking at the south pole. I was a little twisted.
06/04/2026 - 16:42:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:07:54 (Artemis Clock) | We will be discussing lunar geography. We will be back with you shortly.
06/04/2026 - 16:43:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:08:16 (Artemis Clock) | we believe that's demongrader.
06/04/2026 - 16:43:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:08:18 (Artemis Clock) | I'll have to move away from the speaker. Say it again, please.
06/04/2026 - 16:43:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:08:22 (Artemis Clock) | We believe that that is Zeeman crater.
06/04/2026 - 16:43:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:08:38 (Artemis Clock) | Zeeman, okay, now can you say the first letter? I may be pronouncing that wrong. What's the first letter of that word? Zulu. It's Z-E-E-M-A-N.
06/04/2026 - 16:44:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:09:04 (Artemis Clock) | And when I went back to the window just now, the view is completely changed. Our trajectory is taking us to a new view and I'm looking more into Babylov. I've got a nice, great view into Babylov. I'm actually away from the window right now, so I'm going to go try to give you some bounding words on the view that we're seeing, but I've got to get...
06/04/2026 - 16:44:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:09:10 (Artemis Clock) | Back to a window in a minute.
06/04/2026 - 16:44:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:09:16 (Artemis Clock) | Understood, Victor, you're defining new views of the moon in more ways than one.
06/04/2026 - 16:44:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:09:43 (Artemis Clock) | Again, when you hear calls down to science or from science, that's Dr. Kelsey Young, the Artemis Science Flight Operations Lead here at a console in Mission Control. You also hear communications with the crew from Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jenny Gibbons. She is the CAPCOM for today. She is a backup Artemis II crew member.
06/04/2026 - 16:45:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:10:00 (Artemis Clock) | Those calls from pilot Victor Glover asking about a feature he was seeing, specifically a crater on the moon.
06/04/2026 - 16:45:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:10:41 (Artemis Clock) | and when they take on these support roles while Christina Koch and Victor Glover are at the windows photographing and annotating.
06/04/2026 - 16:46:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:11:01 (Artemis Clock) | essentially,
06/04/2026 - 16:46:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:11:48 (Artemis Clock) | describe what I'm seeing, but the Terminator right now is just fantastic. It is the most rugged that I've seen it. From a lighting perspective, there are little islands. There are islands of terrain out there that are completely surrounded by darkness, which indicates some real variation in terrain.
06/04/2026 - 16:47:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:12:04 (Artemis Clock) | Up to the north, there is a very nice double crater. It looks like a snowman sitting there, you know, in the 5, 10 degrees below the pole, in the terminator. And then on the southern edge, there's almost like a hole. It looks like a hole. And it's a...
06/04/2026 - 16:47:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:12:30 (Artemis Clock) | wall of bright, and then it goes back to the black beyond the terminator, so there's just, it looks like there's just a gigantic hole right there, one Babylon diameter east of the terminator. And as you go south, the terminator is not a nice smooth arc, it's just jagged. There's all...
06/04/2026 - 16:47:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:12:52 (Artemis Clock) | Almost a 110-degree turn in the shadow as opposed to the nice smooth arc, again indicating some really interesting variations. And I'm sure we'll get some photos of that. And then one of the craters further to the south of...
06/04/2026 - 16:48:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:13:17 (Artemis Clock) | Look again, looks like just an off that deep hole, and then there's like two island rays pointing off to the west and north that indicate very high ridges and very deep canyons coming up out of that crater, so again, just some really interesting visual illusions going on.
06/04/2026 - 16:48:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:13:43 (Artemis Clock) | north and to the south, it's very, very interesting to see.
06/04/2026 - 16:49:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:14:03 (Artemis Clock) | And you just really brought us along with you, so thanks for that.
06/04/2026 - 16:49:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:14:20 (Artemis Clock) | That's awesome, Kelsey. Did you get a sitrep updating you on a slight change in logistics for PCD use?
06/04/2026 - 16:49:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:14:25 (Artemis Clock) | Christina, this is Houston. We did not, but we will take it now.
06/04/2026 - 16:49:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:14:53 (Artemis Clock) | We slightly changed the PCD plan for the window observers. The two window observers kept their PCD, so in other words, the one that window 2 went to window 3, and the one at window 3 went to window 2, when they swapped, rather than staying at the window. We'll plan on all observers keeping the same PCD.
06/04/2026 - 16:49:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:14:57 (Artemis Clock) | PCD for all observations.
06/04/2026 - 16:50:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:15:05 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, Christina, that makes sense to us, and good plan. We are coming up here on a cabin and window team swap. Let me know when you're ready for a quick vehicle status.
06/04/2026 - 16:51:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:16:23 (Artemis Clock) | is no-go for use as we stick with the predetermined limit for now. All crew members, please use CCUs. Otherwise, Orion is looking very good, and you have 15 minutes in this handover time where we expect
06/04/2026 - 16:51:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:16:29 (Artemis Clock) | Victor and Christina to switch to the windows, and you and Jeremy to be in the cabin assisting. Let us know if you have any questions.
06/04/2026 - 16:51:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:16:55 (Artemis Clock) | And just...
06/04/2026 - 16:52:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:17:22 (Artemis Clock) | But it's cool after just being at the 400 mil for the last half hour, looking up close, I got pictures of everything Ike was just describing on the terminator. It really is a fascinating terminator. And then oriental just looks so... It looks so dynamic right now. It's very three-dimensional out the docking.
06/04/2026 - 16:52:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:17:33 (Artemis Clock) | We love it. We are getting a sneak preview from one of our SAW cameras of what you're looking at and we see some of what you're describing. We cannot wait to see your photos. Thanks.
06/04/2026 - 16:53:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:18:09 (Artemis Clock) | I'll take notes. We want a zoom lens on those saws next time. Thanks, Reed.
06/04/2026 - 16:53:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:18:11 (Artemis Clock) | Affirmative.
06/04/2026 - 16:53:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:18:41 (Artemis Clock) | This view inside the room, CAPCOM Jenny Gibbons speaking with the crew, Canadian Space Agency astronaut. The crew has continued to provide excellent descriptions of what they are seeing on the lunar surface. In this picture, or in this live view, actually,
06/04/2026 - 16:54:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:19:06 (Artemis Clock) | side of the screen. Those are visible from Earth. That's considered the near side. Those are ancient lava flows from a time early in the Moon's history when it was volcanically active. If you look towards the left, there's that dark, large crater that appears to the left.
06/04/2026 - 16:54:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:19:27 (Artemis Clock) | This mission is the first time that humans have ever been able to see this with their eyes in the daylight.
06/04/2026 - 16:54:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:19:38 (Artemis Clock) | Again, you hear conversation about that terminator. You have a great view of that as well. That's the difference between light and darkness on the moon. Victor Glover explaining that as a very jagged-looking terminator due to the peaks that they're seeing and the craters that they're seeing.
06/04/2026 - 16:54:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:19:44 (Artemis Clock) | as they prepare to cross over the far side.
06/04/2026 - 16:55:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:20:09 (Artemis Clock) | Science officer, Dr. Kelsey Young, Artemis science flight operations lead, sharing with Victor Glover that his responses are truly something that only human eyes can discern or provide. So we've previously discussed how having humans observing the moon on this mission is being combined with lunar robotics.
06/04/2026 - 16:55:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:20:46 (Artemis Clock) | It's the longest operated lunar orbiter in history, and it's also the only American spacecraft dedicated specifically to lunar science and exploration. Artemis II lunar observations are designed to complement data like the detailed surface images from LRO.
06/04/2026 - 16:56:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:21:17 (Artemis Clock) | a larger geologic picture. Now this combination of robotic and human observations strengthens lunar science. LRO delivers precise and repeatable measurements over long periods of time, while the Artemis 2 crew contributes real-time visual descriptions and context that rel
06/04/2026 - 16:57:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:22:03 (Artemis Clock) | describe relationships between features. The crew will also observe the same regions multiple times under changing lighting conditions during the flyby and provide perspectives that would take robotic missions years to accumulate. During the Artemis II mission, LRO is also attempting to observe some of the
06/04/2026 - 16:57:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:22:36 (Artemis Clock) | Topography, surface temperature, composition, radiation, and lighting conditions are used to assess hazards, identify safe landing sites, and locate potential resources such as water ice near the lunar south pole. This mission, Artemis II, represents the point where years of robotic preparation
06/04/2026 - 16:57:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:22:53 (Artemis Clock) | are paired with human exploration for the first time in the Artemis era. So together, LRO, the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter, and Artemis II are demonstrating how NASA moved from mapping the moon robotically to exploring it with humans. We are laying the groundwork for future Artemis missions and sustained lunar operations.
06/04/2026 - 16:57:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:22:56 (Artemis Clock) | operations.
06/04/2026 - 16:58:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:23:19 (Artemis Clock) | A check-in with Orion. We are now four days, 21 hours and 22 minutes into the flight of Artemis II, our crew aboard the Orion spacecraft. We are now 8,153 miles away from the moon, 250.
06/04/2026 - 16:58:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:23:24 (Artemis Clock) | fifty thousand seven hundred forty-two miles away from Earth. The spacecraft is traveling at one thousand thirty miles per hour.
06/04/2026 - 16:59:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:24:44 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Houston, the professional science update giver is now in seat 2. That is where Victor is, and Christina is nestling into seat 1 with the long lens, and we're just getting ourselves oriented here. It's a cool view in the cabin.
06/04/2026 - 16:59:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:24:55 (Artemis Clock) | It's pretty cool view to be off the camera now and looking at my crewmates getting up to their observation posts and looking in. It's super fun.
06/04/2026 - 17:00:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:25:06 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, I'll read, we like it.
06/04/2026 - 17:01:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:26:45 (Artemis Clock) | of the support teams and the observation teams. So initially Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen were at windows 2 and 3 in the Orion spacecraft taking photos and making annotations in their PCDs, portable computing devices. They were also
06/04/2026 - 17:02:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:27:11 (Artemis Clock) | We were hearing from NASA astronauts Christina Koch and Victor Glover as they made observations as part of the support team.
06/04/2026 - 17:06:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:31:02 (Artemis Clock) | for the block out the ambient light from a very bright planet Earth, and it will be interesting to see if in the data Victor and Christina see any differences from me and Jeremy with that window blocked. It's a lot darker in the cabin now.
06/04/2026 - 17:06:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:31:20 (Artemis Clock) | taking note, and we'd be curious too.
06/04/2026 - 17:07:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:32:29 (Artemis Clock) | Orion launched 4 days, 21 hours, and 30 minutes ago atop the SLS rocket (Space Launch System rocket) from Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
06/04/2026 - 17:07:55 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:32:55 (Artemis Clock) | To the window, we have Victor Glover and Christina Koch, NASA astronauts, and serving as a support, Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen.
06/04/2026 - 17:08:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:33:26 (Artemis Clock) | For our crews at the window, they are using handheld Nikons with an 80 to 400 millimeter zoom lens. There are also GoPros on each of the solar arrays on Orion, and that's where this view is coming from right now. We have an interior camera of the crew as well, but they have dimmed the cabin lights.
06/04/2026 - 17:08:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:33:47 (Artemis Clock) | reflections from lights inside the spacecraft reflecting onto the windows while they are photographing the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:11:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:36:12 (Artemis Clock) | the only data, this view that you see, coming down from the spacecraft. And so we do rely on sharing some of that with the other flight controllers in Mission Control.
06/04/2026 - 17:11:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:36:17 (Artemis Clock) | This helps the team monitor all systems aboard the spacecraft and ensure the safety of our astronauts.
06/04/2026 - 17:12:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:37:52 (Artemis Clock) | From the crew aboard the spacecraft, they've been imaging the whole moon. There is now a new crew at the window. That would be Victor Glover and Christina Koch. And so being it's their first time since they have moved up to the window positions, they have a chance to orient themselves and describe and take pictures of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:12:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:37:58 (Artemis Clock) | any color or albedo variations across the surface. Reminder, albedo is the brightness or reflectiveness. Integrity Science for a Science SITREP when you're ready.
06/04/2026 - 17:14:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:39:03 (Artemis Clock) | to with the long length.
06/04/2026 - 17:14:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:39:10 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity, we copy. Are the shrouds still on windows one and four? And if so, would you consider trying to get a view through one of those windows?
06/04/2026 - 17:14:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:39:42 (Artemis Clock) | I can see peripheral vision, and then I can get a grazing glimpse out the docking hatch window. I can see Oriental south down to the South Pole, and the primary thing that I see from Oriental right now is just the long trenches.
06/04/2026 - 17:15:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:40:14 (Artemis Clock) | cone when it comes down the Grand Canyon and fingers off into the desert, kind of what it looks like. Also, Burgess Alpha is extremely bright. It's the brightest thing that I can see, even brighter now than Aristarchus, which is heading off to the
06/04/2026 - 17:15:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:40:34 (Artemis Clock) | rays from home and...
06/04/2026 - 17:16:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:41:01 (Artemis Clock) | reach that same level of darkness, especially the rings of Orientale reach the same level of darkness as Grimaldi. And then south of Grimaldi, Jeremy and I were noting a few other just really dark areas of cratering, or I'm sorry, mare there, and those have that same darker albedo, but...
06/04/2026 - 17:16:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:41:12 (Artemis Clock) | Fergus Alpha is the brightest and Grammati is the darkest.
06/04/2026 - 17:16:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:41:18 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity science, that was a great description. Thank you, and thanks for the docking window geometry to give us that description. Any comments before you go on the annular ring in Orientale?
06/04/2026 - 17:16:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:41:45 (Artemis Clock) | The annual rain which I think everybody kind of describes as like a pair of lips or a kiss on the far side of the moon from here is very circular in nature. The northern part of it is wider, darker. The southern part is much lighter. It is very neat looking.
06/04/2026 - 17:17:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:42:17 (Artemis Clock) | Not quite as dark as Dravidi, but it is probably only because dust and lunar regolith has kind of impacted over time.
06/04/2026 - 17:17:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:42:22 (Artemis Clock) | Reed, that's exactly what we were looking for. Thanks so much. You have heart hands coming out of the circle.
06/04/2026 - 17:17:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:42:29 (Artemis Clock) | Say that again, Kelsey.
06/04/2026 - 17:17:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:42:39 (Artemis Clock) | Just saying that the SIR was really excited about that. That annular ring was something we were really eager to hear about, so thanks.
06/04/2026 - 17:17:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:42:59 (Artemis Clock) | I got them situated over there a little bit late.
06/04/2026 - 17:18:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:43:35 (Artemis Clock) | Rep as he is away from the windows most of the time, he is working as the support person along with Jeremy Hansen in the spacecraft as Victor Glover and Christina Koch are now at windows two and three able to photograph the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:19:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:44:07 (Artemis Clock) | The science team will have access to that at a later time. They will then review it and compile all of this data to help further our understanding of the moon. One of the items you heard mentioned was Oriental Basin. This has been a very exciting opportunity for the crew. They have all been very excited.
06/04/2026 - 17:19:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:44:28 (Artemis Clock) | As we discussed earlier.
06/04/2026 - 17:19:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:44:34 (Artemis Clock) | From the pictures, the science team is hoping that the crew will take centered images of the entire basin and surrounding craters in a single frame, but also use those 80-400 millimeter zoom lenses to create a mosaic entire basin.
06/04/2026 - 17:19:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:44:59 (Artemis Clock) | With their unaided eyes, the science team is hoping the crew will describe southern dark annular ring, which you heard Reid just describing, as well as any color, albedo, texture, or topography across the mare patches and ring mountains. Science team reports that the observations
06/04/2026 - 17:20:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:45:20 (Artemis Clock) | Euler ring
06/04/2026 - 17:22:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:47:06 (Artemis Clock) | This live view from the Orion spacecraft on the Artemis II mission now 7,373 miles away from the Moon, 251,130 miles from Earth.
06/04/2026 - 17:23:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:48:04 (Artemis Clock) | Again, the Artemis II crew passed the Apollo 13 record of the humans farthest from the Earth today at 12:57 p.m. Central Time, 1:57 p.m. Eastern Time.
06/04/2026 - 17:23:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:48:29 (Artemis Clock) | We've clearly passed that, and we expect to pass that by about 4,105 miles.
06/04/2026 - 17:23:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:48:46 (Artemis Clock) | That will be when the spacecraft reaches its farthest distance from the Earth. It could be around 252,760 miles, but again, these are approximations and our targets and we will make sure to report back the final numbers once we have them.
06/04/2026 - 17:24:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:49:23 (Artemis Clock) | We have some refined times of when we expect to have Earth set of Earth behind the moon while Orion flies behind the moon. That would be about 5:41 p.m. Central, 6:41 Eastern. The spacecraft would make its closest approach to the moon at 6 o'clock Central.
06/04/2026 - 17:24:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:49:52 (Artemis Clock) | 6:02 p.m. Central, and the spacecraft will reach its farthest distance from the Earth. We anticipate that will be about 252,755 miles, which would be 4,111 miles farther than Apollo 13. We would see Earth rise again at 6:21.
06/04/2026 - 17:24:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:49:58 (Artemis Clock) | at 9:00 p.m. Central Time and a few minutes later, regained communications with the crew.
06/04/2026 - 17:26:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:51:17 (Artemis Clock) | They are both recording information that will be downlinked to the science crew, and tomorrow morning, the science team will have a conference with the team while the information is so fresh. They'll be speaking with the crew about their observations and their data collection.
06/04/2026 - 17:26:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:51:34 (Artemis Clock) | Otherwise, most of tomorrow, Flight Day 7, is considered an off day.
06/04/2026 - 17:27:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:52:53 (Artemis Clock) | The sixth of the Artemis II mission, the first time in more than 50 years that humans will observe the Moon directly, providing a critical opportunity to practice how lunar science will be conducted during future Artemis missions.
06/04/2026 - 17:28:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:53:00 (Artemis Clock) | If you're just joining us, the crew is well into their lunar flyby observations, and we anticipate that we will hear from them soon.
06/04/2026 - 17:28:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:53:21 (Artemis Clock) | One from Commander Reid Wiseman.
06/04/2026 - 17:28:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:53:48 (Artemis Clock) | That Reed Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen are on the support side. They are the ones calling down what they are seeing from windows 1 and 4. Earlier we heard that the Earth is so bright in window 4, they have had to temporarily cover it with a t-shirt.
06/04/2026 - 17:29:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:54:20 (Artemis Clock) | The moon preserves a near-continuous record of solar system history that has been erased on Earth because the moon doesn't have an atmosphere. So things that we experience on Earth, like weather or plate tectonics, don't really apply. So the lunar surface retains evidence of ancient impacts, volcanism, and solar activity.
06/04/2026 - 17:29:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:54:46 (Artemis Clock) | Earth's history and how the sun shaped conditions across the inner solar system. The moon also serves as a unique platform for studying the broader universe. Artemis science is designed around questions best answered by humans, working alongside robotic systems, combining decades of robotic lunar data with real-time
06/04/2026 - 17:30:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:55:34 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity, time for a window team position swap, so Victor and Christina, please switch places if you've not done so already, and remember your SD card for the camera.
06/04/2026 - 17:31:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:56:01 (Artemis Clock) | We're in the swap right now, they're wrapping up their last comments, and they'll switch over and change cards in the long lens.
06/04/2026 - 17:31:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:56:04 (Artemis Clock) | Copy.
06/04/2026 - 17:31:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:56:30 (Artemis Clock) | As you heard in that call, it is now time for the team members at the window to swap positions.
06/04/2026 - 17:31:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:56:51 (Artemis Clock) | Huff has been photographing the moon with a Nikon with an 80-400 millimeter zoom lens while the other was making annotations on their portable computing device.
06/04/2026 - 17:31:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:56:57 (Artemis Clock) | And both are recording audio that the science team will be able to listen to.
06/04/2026 - 17:32:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:57:14 (Artemis Clock) | We are now two hours and ten minutes until we expect to lose signal with the spacecraft as they fly behind the Moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:32:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:57:40 (Artemis Clock) | on any regions, patterns, or features that interest them. The science team has asked the crew to capture pictures that illustrate their choice, as well as at different zoom levels, and to describe why those certain features or regions caught their eye.
06/04/2026 - 17:33:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:58:00 (Artemis Clock) | Those recordings are part of what are being saved on their PCD, Portable Computing Device, that will be sent to the science team for analysis.
06/04/2026 - 17:33:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:58:26 (Artemis Clock) | Crew choice event, and it's also a time for a scheduled SITREP or situation report, so we expect to hear them calling down what they are seeing soon.
06/04/2026 - 17:34:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:59:23 (Artemis Clock) | The name is used to help prepare the crew is a cue card. These ask for a feature ID, if they happen to know the type or name, and if it is a target. Of course, in this situation, when they have a crew choice, they do not need to, it may or may not be a target. They want to know the location and the observation style.
06/04/2026 - 17:34:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:21:59:56 (Artemis Clock) | and structure and texture. That includes slopes, structures and textures, of course, and geologic relations, like association to other features, any contact to those features, and of course, their thoughts, impressions or interpretations. They are interested even in
06/04/2026 - 17:35:01 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:00:01 (Artemis Clock) | emotions and excitement that the crew may be having.
06/04/2026 - 17:35:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:00:38 (Artemis Clock) | conducted some field work, learning how to look for specific geologic features. They also photographed a large globe and the science team helped them determine which features they would be targeting and how to look at those.
06/04/2026 - 17:36:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:01:21 (Artemis Clock) | discussion portion. This is for the far side albedo, that reflectiveness and color that they are seeing. We heard earlier about some browns seen on the moon, which is very interesting, especially here from Earth, where we are just seeing whites, grays, and maybe even black at some points.
06/04/2026 - 17:36:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:01:42 (Artemis Clock) | is looking to know how that color and albedo is, what those variations look like across the far side.
06/04/2026 - 17:37:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:02:14 (Artemis Clock) | On the right side of your screen, the science evaluation room, or SER, where team members are looking real-time at what the crew is seeing. And even earlier were...
06/04/2026 - 17:37:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:02:19 (Artemis Clock) | We'll take it.
06/04/2026 - 17:37:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:02:51 (Artemis Clock) | And they're really enjoying, they both decided to pick the Terminator, and they're spending a lot of time looking at the Terminator, just talking about the resolution that they can see, the depth of the craters, and the various interesting...
06/04/2026 - 17:37:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:02:56 (Artemis Clock) | and unique excavations that they can see.
06/04/2026 - 17:38:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:03:17 (Artemis Clock) | And I'm sneaking a look, a peek in T-shirt window. It looks like...
06/04/2026 - 17:38:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:03:28 (Artemis Clock) | I don't have the best angle here, but it looks like Errer Stark is on the limb of the moon now. It's amazing how quickly it changes as we speed around the far side of the moon, stuff that's leaving our field of view. And now we have a lot.
06/04/2026 - 17:38:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:03:34 (Artemis Clock) | a lot of the dark side of the moon that, you know, it's missing for us right now, but it would be in view if it was lit at all.
06/04/2026 - 17:39:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:04:05 (Artemis Clock) | descriptions of more verbosity about how it's changing. Thanks for the great tip.
06/04/2026 - 17:39:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:04:42 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, Kelsey, sounds good. We are definitely keeping an eye on that. My eyes are just not readjusted. The moon is so bright when you come back to the window. I was just in the interior of the cabin. I've come back to the t-shirt window, and it's just overwhelming brightness, and my viewing angle is...
06/04/2026 - 17:39:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:04:53 (Artemis Clock) | So I won't be able to give you great observations from this window, but I will talk about something that I was talking a lot about in my recordings earlier, which was, we've been talking about some shades, and so we have the obviously the dark.
06/04/2026 - 17:40:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:05:20 (Artemis Clock) | And I'll tell you, like right now, Aristarchus, the plateau is hard for me to see from this window, but that had green issues to me and was very unique. I didn't see anything like that anywhere else on this side of the Moon. And then I see...
06/04/2026 - 17:40:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:05:45 (Artemis Clock) | For example, in the northwest corner of the highlands, to me it looks like the brownish hue is caused by ray or ejecta material landing on the highlands, and we obviously see the ray areas as a lighter albedo, but in between the rays where the
06/04/2026 - 17:41:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:06:17 (Artemis Clock) | Northwest side of highlands, I saw it in the highlands to the east of Galushko, and then I see those same brownish hues west of Oriental, and I drew a contact there on one note, but that's a huge region.
06/04/2026 - 17:41:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:06:37 (Artemis Clock) | towards the northern side of Herzsprung.
06/04/2026 - 17:41:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:06:40 (Artemis Clock) | And that is an area that just looks like a different, that brownish albedo.
06/04/2026 - 17:41:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:06:56 (Artemis Clock) | That was fantastic, Jeremy. We had heard rumors of the green and brown hues, and so you really read my mind on asking about those. Understand they likely didn't have any contact with each other the way that you described them, but please correct me if I misunderstood that.
06/04/2026 - 17:42:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:07:17 (Artemis Clock) | so you can stay at the windows and keep your eyes adjusted to the moon. Please let us know.
06/04/2026 - 17:42:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:07:37 (Artemis Clock) | All right, if you've got something you want us to look at, Kelsey, you can send it on up.
06/04/2026 - 17:42:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:07:44 (Artemis Clock) | Definitely not looking to interrupt your flow, Reed and Jeremy, only offering assistance if you guys want to keep your eyes off of the PCDs.
06/04/2026 - 17:43:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:08:04 (Artemis Clock) | Oh, I see what you're saying, OK.
06/04/2026 - 17:43:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:08:20 (Artemis Clock) | Not really science related, and we definitely learned this in Apollo, but the thing that is just most fascinating, I think, to me and Victor right now is, even as rugged as the far side looks, when you look at Oriental and home, it's rugged, but man, when you look at the terminator, it is...
06/04/2026 - 17:43:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:08:47 (Artemis Clock) | valleys, and it is just, it's unbelievable. It's like no surface of the terminator is not marked by a meteor impact, and it's just, it is very impressive to look at that, and you realize that that is true across the whole far side, you just can't see it due to sun illumination right now.
06/04/2026 - 17:43:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:08:58 (Artemis Clock) | We received some copies and we were commenting on the same thing. Even from our view, the terminator looks absolutely alien because there is just so much texture in there that we're just not used to seeing. So thanks for sharing that with us.
06/04/2026 - 17:44:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:09:29 (Artemis Clock) | I don't know the name of it, maybe you can look on the solar array wing video and tell me it's right, it's the southernmost crater you see on the terminator right now.
06/04/2026 - 17:44:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:09:34 (Artemis Clock) | We're looking for you.
06/04/2026 - 17:47:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:12:00 (Artemis Clock) | that that is Chibishev Crater, and the Sur agrees with that.
06/04/2026 - 17:47:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:12:11 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, that picture I was just showing you is an ATX iPhone out the docking hatch with a high grazing angle. It's just amazing.
06/04/2026 - 17:47:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:12:17 (Artemis Clock) | We love it, thank you.
06/04/2026 - 17:47:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:12:49 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas. Mission elapsed time: 4 days, 22 hours, 12 minutes into the flight of Orion.
06/04/2026 - 17:48:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:13:15 (Artemis Clock) | Cook and Jeremy Hansen are now the farthest people to have ever traveled from Earth.
06/04/2026 - 17:48:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:13:41 (Artemis Clock) | The moon better with no reflections from inside and for a very brief moment there... Integrity Science, thanks for those iPhone views. It's helpful to see what you're seeing.
06/04/2026 - 17:49:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:14:07 (Artemis Clock) | Very briefly saw NASA astronaut Reid Wiseman showing a picture he took on his phone of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:49:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:14:18 (Artemis Clock) | We do expect to get all of the photos that the crew is taking today and we cannot wait to share some of those with you, but pretty cool in the meantime just to see one quick shot from what the crew is seeing. And this view from outside the spacecraft on Orion.
06/04/2026 - 17:49:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:14:24 (Artemis Clock) | solar array wing.
06/04/2026 - 17:49:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:14:50 (Artemis Clock) | Again, their closest approach will be about 4,066 miles. The best comparison is if you held a basketball at arm's length. That's about what it would look like to the Artemis II crew at their closest approach.
06/04/2026 - 17:51:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:16:32 (Artemis Clock) | observation blocks after the completion of this one.
06/04/2026 - 17:51:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:16:43 (Artemis Clock) | Down in the bottom left of your screen, that's the SIR, the Science Evaluation Room, where team members are continuing to work through all of the targets that the crew is photographing today, and they've helped identify some of the craters and some of the other items that the crew has seen on the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:52:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:17:00 (Artemis Clock) | Down on the right is Artemis Mission Control here in Houston. Those two rooms down at the bottom are just down the hall from each other.
06/04/2026 - 17:52:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:17:32 (Artemis Clock) | That means Victor and Christina, who have been at the windows, will fly to the cabin, the background, essentially, and be their support crew for Reed and Jeremy. Reed and Jeremy will move back up to the windows.
06/04/2026 - 17:54:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:19:02 (Artemis Clock) | Discussion portion of the flyby in the lunar targeting package where it says far side albedo slash color, they are looking, science team is looking to get a good understanding of what the crew can see on the far side at this point and its brightness as well as any colors. We did hear earlier.
06/04/2026 - 17:54:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:19:18 (Artemis Clock) | Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen reporting that they could even see browns and even greens on the moon. I'm really looking forward to seeing those photos. And in just a couple of minutes, the teams will swap from the cabin to the window.
06/04/2026 - 17:54:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:19:50 (Artemis Clock) | time during which the crew is going to be observing the moon from Orion's windows. Now we are just coming up on the end of the second block, and we'll start the third soon. So at any time during those blocks, two members are at the windows working in a pair. One is taking photos...
06/04/2026 - 17:55:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:20:29 (Artemis Clock) | Now again, both of those crew members are making audio recordings of what they are seeing, and we are not hearing that right now. Those are going to be downlinked later to the science team who will evaluate them and use that data to inform our understanding of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 17:55:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:20:46 (Artemis Clock) | Two crew members at the windows swap roles. Integrity Houston, it is time for another swap between the cabin and the window team. So we have 15 minutes of handover time, and then we will expect Jeremy and Reed at the windows and Christina.
06/04/2026 - 17:56:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:21:06 (Artemis Clock) | You have a photo location for some photos on Ike's PCD, and I want to let you know that Jeremy's family have arrived in the viewing gallery.
06/04/2026 - 17:56:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:21:38 (Artemis Clock) | The only thing we're missing is what you meant about the photo location on Victor's PCD. And hello to my family. I think that must be Catherine and Devin that are there. And I'm glad they made it into the viewing room. And we copy a cyber crew swap.
06/04/2026 - 17:56:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:21:54 (Artemis Clock) | The A team's coming out of the windows, and the B team's going in. OK, copy. All I meant to pass for Victor's PCD is that there are some late load photos that were requested that are now in his favorite photos folder. And you're exactly right, we have Catherine.
06/04/2026 - 17:57:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:22:00 (Artemis Clock) | and Devon here. They give you a big wave and they're super excited and happy to see part of what you're seeing.
06/04/2026 - 17:57:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:22:51 (Artemis Clock) | related to Fly-Fi.
06/04/2026 - 17:58:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:23:34 (Artemis Clock) | This is Artemis Mission Control here at Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas. And as you just heard, CAPCOM, or Capsule Communicator, Jenny Gibbons, Canadian Space Agency astronaut and Artemis II crew backup, relaying to the teams in Orion that it is time for a swap from the cabin to the window teams.
06/04/2026 - 17:59:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:24:05 (Artemis Clock) | windows, photographing and making annotations, while Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen were in the cabin providing support, whether that is SD card help, but also science sit reps, calling down any situation reports for what they are seeing on the moon or anything about the vehicle status.
06/04/2026 - 17:59:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:24:11 (Artemis Clock) | This.
06/04/2026 - 17:59:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:24:22 (Artemis Clock) | With that call to make the swap, Reid and Jeremy will be back at the windows, making observations for what they see at the moon and taking photos.
06/04/2026 - 18:01:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:26:20 (Artemis Clock) | Again, you're watching live coverage of NASA's Artemis II.
06/04/2026 - 18:01:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:26:26 (Artemis Clock) | In 45 minutes, we'll have two identical crescents as we change our position in the universe.
06/04/2026 - 18:01:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:26:31 (Artemis Clock) | That is pretty darn cool. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 18:02:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:27:06 (Artemis Clock) | reporting that when they look out of window 3, one window, they're able to see both the Earth and the Moon at the same time now. Now obviously, our view is from a camera on the solar array wing pointed at the Moon. We hope to see that view of both the Earth and the Moon soon.
06/04/2026 - 18:02:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:27:33 (Artemis Clock) | Expect in about an hour and 40 minutes, we will have Earth set. And during that time, we will have a view of Earth going behind the Moon.
06/04/2026 - 18:02:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:27:44 (Artemis Clock) | Shortly after, just a few minutes later, we will lose signal with the Orion spacecraft. This is tracked as it is going behind the moon and out of reach of the deep space network. At 6 o'clock p.m., the spacecraft will make its closest approach to the moon at a distance of about 4,060 miles.
06/04/2026 - 18:03:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:28:10 (Artemis Clock) | 252,755 miles. Of course, these are approximate and we will make sure to provide you with the final distances once those are confirmed. At 6:21 p.m. we will have Earth rise from the Orion spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 18:03:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:28:31 (Artemis Clock) | acquire signal with them after they have emerged from behind the moon.
06/04/2026 - 18:04:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:29:19 (Artemis Clock) | Again, you're watching live coverage of NASA's lunar flyby for the Artemis 2 mission, the first crew to fly beyond the moon in over 50 years. The astronauts inside the spacecraft are switching positions, two at the windows and two serving in support roles, before they start their third burn.
06/04/2026 - 18:04:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:29:25 (Artemis Clock) | timeline to flyby observation for today.
06/04/2026 - 18:04:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:29:36 (Artemis Clock) | We've heard great calls from the crew so far describing what they're seeing, all well trained by the science team here on the ground.
06/04/2026 - 18:04:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:29:58 (Artemis Clock) | Another major milestone for the crew today will be to experience a solar eclipse from their capsule. No one on Earth will experience this solar eclipse.
06/04/2026 - 18:05:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:30:18 (Artemis Clock) | To the astronauts, this will look a lot like a total solar eclipse on Earth, except the moon will be huge compared to the sun, whereas if you're standing on Earth and looking at a solar eclipse, the moon and the sun appear to be about the same size in the sky.
06/04/2026 - 18:05:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:30:45 (Artemis Clock) | During that time frame, they will have to wear eclipse glasses so they can safely view this phase. They also intend to capture images of the sun's corona during the eclipse. This is a rare glimpse at the innermost corona that will only be captured by the astronauts' cameras.
06/04/2026 - 18:06:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:31:05 (Artemis Clock) | unique light features like the shape and size of the corona and potentially even lunar dust.
06/04/2026 - 18:06:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:31:31 (Artemis Clock) | That information instead of instruments for navigation and orientation.
06/04/2026 - 18:06:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:31:37 (Artemis Clock) | That eclipse window will last about an hour and it will happen near the end of the day today, closer to 7:35 PM Central, 8:35 Eastern.
06/04/2026 - 18:08:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:33:20 (Artemis Clock) | Orion, the spacecraft is maneuvering around the moon and the views of the moon have changed since we started our broadcast.
06/04/2026 - 18:08:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:33:31 (Artemis Clock) | The nearside is now very far to the right side of your screen. This is the side that we can see from Earth. That darkened portion are ancient lava flows.
06/04/2026 - 18:08:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:33:43 (Artemis Clock) | The crater down towards the bottom of the moon is Orientale, and this is a crater that was previously never seen before by human eyes until this mission.
06/04/2026 - 18:09:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:34:08 (Artemis Clock) | Everything to the left of Orientale is considered the far side, and this is what we typically do not see from Earth.
06/04/2026 - 18:10:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:35:00 (Artemis Clock) | This is coming from a GoPro camera mounted on the tip of one of Orion's four solar arrays. Each solar array has a camera mounted on it, and the bandwidth is limited due to we have a crew on board. And this is our first flight of crew aboard the Orion spacecraft, so having a crew means we have to have an environment.
06/04/2026 - 18:10:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:35:05 (Artemis Clock) | Environmental control and life support system.
06/04/2026 - 18:10:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:35:25 (Artemis Clock) | aboard the spacecraft, so we have to share our bandwidth when it comes to imagery and data.
06/04/2026 - 18:11:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:36:08 (Artemis Clock) | Inside the Orion spacecraft, the astronauts have completed their cabin and window team swap, meaning we have moved into the next block of lunar flyby observations. Jeremy Hansen and Reid Wiseman are now back at the windows taking photos and making annotations. We're about halfway through this.
06/04/2026 - 18:11:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:36:14 (Artemis Clock) | This block, they will switch positions at the windows and will be prompted by the ground to do so.
06/04/2026 - 18:12:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:37:38 (Artemis Clock) | It just pops right out at you when you can zoom in, so almost just using it like a telescope, the camera lens. We really enjoyed our discussion time. That was a great innovation on the lunar targeting plan. We were both able to describe a lot more kind of with flow, I would say, when we were talking to each other.
06/04/2026 - 18:13:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:38:04 (Artemis Clock) | terrain different color areas, both in the Mare and in the highlands, and we identified some really unique texture areas as well. At one point, towards the end of the images of my time in window three, I just had an overwhelming sense of being moved.
06/04/2026 - 18:13:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:38:31 (Artemis Clock) | but something just drew me in suddenly to the lunar landscape and it became real. And the truth is, the moon really is its own body in the universe; it's not just a poster in the sky that goes by. It is a real place.
06/04/2026 - 18:14:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:39:09 (Artemis Clock) | until you've had the perspective of the other. I'll switch into some logistics stuff. The Keltors, both, their batteries stopped providing the active listening, but we have verified they are still recording, and so we were able to have discussions.
06/04/2026 - 18:14:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:39:19 (Artemis Clock) | time and hear outside our recordings by just moving the ear cup off of the ear. Other than that, everything's working well technically, and we've been able to find all our targets, and we're having a really great time.
06/04/2026 - 18:14:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:39:31 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks, Christina. We copy those logistics for the tele-tours, and also, thanks for bringing us into the cabin with you with that description.
06/04/2026 - 18:15:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:40:42 (Artemis Clock) | passing in our night sky.
06/04/2026 - 18:15:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:40:47 (Artemis Clock) | Currently, the team members at the window are Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen. Meanwhile, integrity cabin team for window shroud.
06/04/2026 - 18:16:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:41:40 (Artemis Clock) | and the shroud might be getting us close, so we just want to check on the state of window four's shroud, whether you believe it's still necessary because maybe things have changed with our viewing, and if so, we would like to request to have the shroud removed.
06/04/2026 - 18:17:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:42:06 (Artemis Clock) | Houston, we believe it is necessary. We pulled it off just at the corner. It is very bright. It definitely would affect our night vision and maybe comfort. But if there is there a time, can you tell us when we would have to take it off by?
06/04/2026 - 18:17:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:42:38 (Artemis Clock) | I'm going to have to request that the shroud is removed, and we can recommend something that could block the light, but just create a bit of distance between the window and whatever is covering it. Something like a t-shirt would do the trick and help.
06/04/2026 - 18:17:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:42:44 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, we're removing the shroud and we will make it work. Thanks.
06/04/2026 - 18:18:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:43:10 (Artemis Clock) | Thank you, Victor. We know it's pretty bright in there now with that window uncovered. We will also offer that airflow on the window would be helpful, so if you want, you can also retrieve the condensation hose, which should be friction fit onto one of the diffusers, and
06/04/2026 - 18:18:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:43:15 (Artemis Clock) | That on the window would also help.
06/04/2026 - 18:18:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:43:26 (Artemis Clock) | We can easily point a diffuser at the window, so we're gonna start with that, and it's pointing at the window now.
06/04/2026 - 18:18:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:43:46 (Artemis Clock) | We'll take that, Victor, thank you. Please keep us updated.
06/04/2026 - 18:19:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:44:39 (Artemis Clock) | That call from Capcom Jenny Gibbons, CSA astronaut and Artemis II crew backup to the crew aboard Orion, letting them know that they will need to remove the window shroud they had placed on window four. They initially placed that shroud there to block out some of the light from the Earth. It was extremely bright coming in the
06/04/2026 - 18:19:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:44:45 (Artemis Clock) | cabin and interfering with some of their viewing opportunities out at the moon.
06/04/2026 - 18:20:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:45:10 (Artemis Clock) | window.
06/04/2026 - 18:20:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:45:31 (Artemis Clock) | She had been seeing during her
06/04/2026 - 18:20:34 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:45:34 (Artemis Clock) | her observation period and what she was seeing at that time.
06/04/2026 - 18:20:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:45:37 (Artemis Clock) | The science team asked this crew to take centered images of the entire crater and their RASC system in one frame.
06/04/2026 - 18:20:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:45:48 (Artemis Clock) | They're also interested in knowing the brightness, texture, and extent of Glushko's rays and how they differ in the mare, or that sea area, versus the highlands.
06/04/2026 - 18:21:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:46:09 (Artemis Clock) | a young lunar crater and these observations can help understand material properties of those craters.
06/04/2026 - 18:21:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:46:40 (Artemis Clock) | that it was very moving to look out the window. I had the unfortunate sequence to start looking out the window and then moved to the long lens and it was hard to speak looking through the zoom because I went straight where Christina went.
06/04/2026 - 18:22:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:47:17 (Artemis Clock) | but I just want to really emphasize how important the discussion time was. When we started to talk, we not only got better science discussion, we got better human connection. And so doing this as a pair, we just learn and grow together. And that's just super important, so thank you for adding that to this plan.
06/04/2026 - 18:22:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:47:38 (Artemis Clock) | to the center, but a different color. It has more brownish tones in it, and he said it's very distinct now that he's been staring at it.
06/04/2026 - 18:22:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:47:49 (Artemis Clock) | Victor, thank you. You got a cheer from science there, and we all just went on that moonwalk with you, so highlighting how important it is to talk about these things. I also want to let you know that we have Deanna Glover with us in the viewing gallery. She's all smiles.
06/04/2026 - 18:23:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:48:15 (Artemis Clock) | I love you from the moon. We love that we got a hey babe too, and we also have one of your lovely daughters here watching you guys work.
06/04/2026 - 18:23:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:48:40 (Artemis Clock) | I love you, and Deanna, I love you. I'm glad you get to be there.
06/04/2026 - 18:24:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:49:22 (Artemis Clock) | And just a description of how it must feel if you were down on the lunar surface while he was looking through that 80-400-millimeter zoom lens.
06/04/2026 - 18:24:28 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:49:28 (Artemis Clock) | He also expressed how important it was to be able to talk through that real-time with Christina Cook and stressed the importance of that on future missions, that it not only made their discussions better, but also more human.
06/04/2026 - 18:24:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:49:54 (Artemis Clock) | annotations at the windows, but they are also encouraged to have their midday meal at this time. For lunch today, those two crew members have options of beef ravioli, salmon, butternut squash, sweet and savory kale, pickled beets, cherry blueberry cobbler, to name a few.
06/04/2026 - 18:25:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:50:41 (Artemis Clock) | Again, this is the third of five scheduled blocks for our lunar viewing today, and if you were watching at the start of the broadcast, you can definitely tell the difference in the distance from the moon. We are now 5,518 miles.
06/04/2026 - 18:26:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:51:07 (Artemis Clock) | They are currently 252,050 miles away from Earth, and every mile is a new record, having surpassed the Apollo 13 milestone for furthest distance earlier today.
06/04/2026 - 18:26:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:51:54 (Artemis Clock) | That is Oriental Basin.
06/04/2026 - 18:27:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:52:14 (Artemis Clock) | While on the moon, it is really exposing some of those craters at this time.
06/04/2026 - 18:27:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:52:40 (Artemis Clock) | to that terminator line right now, and Vavilov crater is just on the outskirts of it, closer again to the terminator.
06/04/2026 - 18:27:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:52:49 (Artemis Clock) | Towards the bottom of the moon and to the left of the terminator line, or currently shadowed in darkness, is Apollo Basin.
06/04/2026 - 18:28:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:53:20 (Artemis Clock) | Let me find out how far we are from the moon right now, but our view is about a third of the moon is in eclipse. That beautiful terminator out there calling to me. We're 4,691 miles from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 18:28:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:53:46 (Artemis Clock) | About a third of the way up from the southernmost part of the terminator, looked like a dinosaur print if one was running to the northwest, now is clearly a crater with a bunch of craters around it.
06/04/2026 - 18:29:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:54:12 (Artemis Clock) | but that terminator has moved. I guess I've been using Vavilov the whole time, so it's gone two more Vavilov craters to the west. And so a few more features are starting to peak out.
06/04/2026 - 18:29:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:54:43 (Artemis Clock) | terminator and a few islands of light out there with some high elevation shining in the sunlight in that darkness. And on the eastern side of the moon, the, let's see...
06/04/2026 - 18:30:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:55:10 (Artemis Clock) | It is interesting just looking at Oriental that my first impression of it is all of the dark areas appear lighter, which I think makes sense because it is now facing, well, it's still relatively the same to the sun, but my angle.
06/04/2026 - 18:30:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:55:37 (Artemis Clock) | But all the darker features appear to be just a little bit lighter from this vantage point, the darker ring structure in the outer and inner ring and the interior, as well as the annular ring portion. Everything seems to be just a smidge lighter at this point.
06/04/2026 - 18:31:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:56:09 (Artemis Clock) | As we get closer to target 15, which is the terminator target, if you can find Zeman crater again that you were looking at earlier, everything to your left of Zeman would be getting into the south pole Agen area to help you orient yourself.
06/04/2026 - 18:31:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:56:29 (Artemis Clock) | You can really see it.
06/04/2026 - 18:31:46 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:56:46 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, Zeman is very easy to find, and that is awesome. Thank you for pointing that out. Feel free to do that as often as you think of things. Let's see, looking back at Oriental. Okay, another thing, after looking through the Zoom camera, man, you guys...
06/04/2026 - 18:32:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:57:12 (Artemis Clock) | I see the cliff faces. If you're standing in the center, that inner and outer ring have definitely some real terrain to them. And now I can see that as terrain. Now that I look at it even with my naked eye, I can tell that there's a lot of elevation and...
06/04/2026 - 18:32:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:57:41 (Artemis Clock) | before it seemed like a flat with color painted on it, but now that I look at it, I can definitely see that there is, you know, different depositional characteristics, and so the darker is some other material, but there's also some shadowing going on because of the cliff face.
06/04/2026 - 18:32:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:57:59 (Artemis Clock) | that is a part of that crater wall. Great description, Victor. Thanks, and really interesting to hear now the distinction between shadow and color. Before I let you go back to other observations, you mentioned that re-
06/04/2026 - 18:33:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:58:47 (Artemis Clock) | thermal couple right here in the center of the window, and it is the orange Kapton tape color. And so it is, unfortunately, it's like trying to look at stars, you know, next to a metropolis. I think it's drowning out any color that I could pick up from the moon. I am not able to see.
06/04/2026 - 18:34:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:59:08 (Artemis Clock) | I think when I get away from this Kapton tape strip that I would be able to see the variation that Reed's talking about.
06/04/2026 - 18:34:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:59:14 (Artemis Clock) | That is great feedback operationally. Thanks, Victor. I'll leave you to it.
06/04/2026 - 18:34:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:59:30 (Artemis Clock) | Science integrity with a question from the Window team.
06/04/2026 - 18:34:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:22:59:36 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity of the Science here with you.
06/04/2026 - 18:35:03 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:00:03 (Artemis Clock) | the maria seas of the near side or Orientale.
06/04/2026 - 18:35:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:00:09 (Artemis Clock) | Stand by, Integrity, we're gonna get you a little geologic history here.
06/04/2026 - 18:36:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:01:39 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Science back with you for some lunar volcanism when you're ready.
06/04/2026 - 18:37:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:02:04 (Artemis Clock) | You're making our day down here getting to talk about lunar volcanoes. Orientale, as far as mare go, is younger than almost all of the mare on the near side. The exception are features like
06/04/2026 - 18:37:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:02:24 (Artemis Clock) | Other than that, Oriental is pretty young as far as marigold.
06/04/2026 - 18:37:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:02:45 (Artemis Clock) | And Kelsey, thanks for that. We love linear volcanoism too. How about when the actual crater was formed?
06/04/2026 - 18:38:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:03:08 (Artemis Clock) | Yeah, we're going to get you an age for Oriental, and while we're getting that, Christina, can you, maybe you've heard the window team talk about the sort of contacts around Oriental, but because it's that material is so much younger, if anything...
06/04/2026 - 18:38:13 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:03:13 (Artemis Clock) | pops out to you about physical relationship between that and surrounding terrain, we'd love to hear it.
06/04/2026 - 18:38:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:03:51 (Artemis Clock) | of the creation of the basin and understanding the superposition of its ejecta and mare on the near side or other features. So, thank you. We'll take the insight when you have it.
06/04/2026 - 18:39:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:04:12 (Artemis Clock) | get to you with some topics, so I'll leave you with Oriental is 3.8 billion years old.
06/04/2026 - 18:39:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:04:32 (Artemis Clock) | Copy that. So that's on the older side. The actual basin was, is very old.
06/04/2026 - 18:39:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:04:38 (Artemis Clock) | Correct. As is the case with a lot of mare, typically the big basin formed and then the, you know, volcanic eruption was able to punch through the crust where it was weakened by that basin formation.
06/04/2026 - 18:39:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:04:43 (Artemis Clock) | Perfect. Tracking. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 18:40:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:05:09 (Artemis Clock) | down some questions to the science team on console. The voice you're hearing with those answers is Dr. Kelsi Young. She's joined by Trevor Graf on console today. Christina asking about the age of oriental.
06/04/2026 - 18:40:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:05:31 (Artemis Clock) | filled by volcanic deposits.
06/04/2026 - 18:41:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:06:39 (Artemis Clock) | And Victor or Christina, I have one window task for the cabin team when you're ready.
06/04/2026 - 18:42:27 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:07:27 (Artemis Clock) | and hose such that the air is flowing over the window pane. Let me know when you're ready for the stowage location.
06/04/2026 - 18:42:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:07:33 (Artemis Clock) | Ready.
06/04/2026 - 18:42:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:07:54 (Artemis Clock) | Christina, the hose is in locker A1.
06/04/2026 - 18:43:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:08:10 (Artemis Clock) | The crew has gotten a go to reinstall that window shroud they were using to block some of the earthshine. This view coming from inside the Orion spacecraft as the crew members are swapping windows, specifically Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen.
06/04/2026 - 18:43:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:08:32 (Artemis Clock) | The science team will have a conference tomorrow morning with the crew to get any fresh perspectives or things that they learned during the flyby.
06/04/2026 - 18:44:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:09:39 (Artemis Clock) | Again, we are now in the third of five observation blocks for the crew scheduled for today. During this flyby, Orion is passing around between 4,000 and 6,000 miles from the moon and providing the crew with a full view of the lunar surface.
06/04/2026 - 18:45:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:10:05 (Artemis Clock) | in one single view.
06/04/2026 - 18:46:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:11:08 (Artemis Clock) | The view you have right now is a live stream from a camera on Orion's solar arrays. You are looking at a live view of the Moon, and four people are inside that spacecraft taking pictures of it, telling us everything that they are seeing, the first humans to do so in over 50 years.
06/04/2026 - 18:46:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:11:19 (Artemis Clock) | They'll be sending those pictures down for all of us to enjoy and, of course, especially the science team who are very excited for what they are learning today.
06/04/2026 - 18:46:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:11:40 (Artemis Clock) | 5,000 miles away from the moon. Again, we expect their closest distance to the moon be about 4,066 miles.
06/04/2026 - 18:47:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:12:26 (Artemis Clock) | Victor, we definitely want you to cool down the window with the condensation hose. It's crew preference whether you put the shroud back on; the hose will allow you to do that if it helps with your lunar flyby.
06/04/2026 - 18:47:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:12:37 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, copy. We're gonna do both at the same time. Thank you.
06/04/2026 - 18:47:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:12:39 (Artemis Clock) | Houston copies.
06/04/2026 - 18:48:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:13:04 (Artemis Clock) | The cabin is darkened again, and that makes a big difference for the imagery. And for science, we are now seeing a half moon.
06/04/2026 - 18:48:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:13:25 (Artemis Clock) | Still.
06/04/2026 - 18:49:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:14:05 (Artemis Clock) | That's what it looks like here from this view from the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 18:49:08 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:14:08 (Artemis Clock) | However, what has become a little bit of a catchphrase for this mission, everyone is reporting full moon joy.
06/04/2026 - 18:50:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:15:11 (Artemis Clock) | We're just wrapping up their second. Another observation, the window team commented on and Christine and I discussed a bit, is in Hertz from the solid and intact crater is very smooth.
06/04/2026 - 18:50:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:15:43 (Artemis Clock) | more jagged and starts to get into the more loose-looking terrain. And the smooth interior also causes the craters that are inside of the larger crater, the smaller craters, to have really sharp edges, sharp distinct edges. And just a general comment on that --
06/04/2026 - 18:51:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:16:09 (Artemis Clock) | Oriental and between Oriental and Holm, excluding the wedge, the darker wedge, is more on the six, seven, and that they also seem to be different texturally. Christina described it earlier around Herzsprung and then from Herzsprung toward Holm. I'm sorry.
06/04/2026 - 18:51:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:16:42 (Artemis Clock) | and it freezes instantly. That's the texture. If you walk down there barefoot, it looks like it would be hard on your feet, like, like uh, Aha, lava, after it's cooled, it's, it's, it would be poky. Uh, except for right there in the center of Herzsprung, it looks paved, like a paved road, nice and smooth.
06/04/2026 - 18:51:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:16:53 (Artemis Clock) | Victor, that's a wonderful description. Going from a paved road to a lava reminds us of the Icelandic highlands. Thanks for that.
06/04/2026 - 18:52:25 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:17:25 (Artemis Clock) | The last feature of the intact crater at Hertzsprung is albedo variation. I think I heard one of the window crew maybe say color variation, but definitely albedo variation. There's lighter patches and slightly darker patches. It's not swirling, it's just patchy.
06/04/2026 - 18:52:36 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:17:36 (Artemis Clock) | It has spots that are lighter, and I would say a predominantly darker average area.
06/04/2026 - 18:52:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:17:42 (Artemis Clock) | Great description, Victor, thanks. Not fully, just patchy is really helpful for us.
06/04/2026 - 18:53:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:18:19 (Artemis Clock) | of the Terminator, and boy, I am loving the Terminator. I think, I know it's not purely a moon feature, but what it does to the features of the moon, to the terrain, I've probably spent the most time describing into my recordings and thinking about and looking at the Terminator.
06/04/2026 - 18:53:40 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:18:40 (Artemis Clock) | Like black holes, you'd fall straight to the center of the moon if you stepped in some of those. It's just so visually captivating that the terminator is the most striking thing that I've seen so far.
06/04/2026 - 18:53:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:18:56 (Artemis Clock) | We've been loving your evocative descriptions, Victor. You really are bringing us along with you, and we're following along with visualizations that pale in comparison to your descriptions. Thanks.
06/04/2026 - 18:54:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:19:17 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity science, one more question on a status of what the window team chose to observe for crew choice.
06/04/2026 - 18:55:15 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:20:15 (Artemis Clock) | Window 2 talked about Vamana, looked for suspended dust, and the Terminator. And Window 3 about the experience and about the three-dimensionality of...
06/04/2026 - 18:55:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:20:20 (Artemis Clock) | The moon is close.
06/04/2026 - 18:56:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:21:09 (Artemis Clock) | the sense that we're flying over something with elevation and terrain, and they look different from this orientation.
06/04/2026 - 18:56:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:21:21 (Artemis Clock) | Love to hear, Victor, and you had it that those chains are actually crater rays, secondary craters formed from the formation of Orientale.
06/04/2026 - 18:56:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:21:48 (Artemis Clock) | Runoff to the north, to the northwest, that runoff toward Herzsprung and I believe toward Babloff. I'm not looking at it right now, but those crater rays are very interesting. They're all very small. I know you've imaged this, but they're all small.
06/04/2026 - 18:57:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:22:04 (Artemis Clock) | and they look like, you know, a big impact launched rocks and things that made smaller impacts down the way. But something very interesting, and again you can see this in imagery, but some of them are parallel and some of them converge toward the center of Orientale. And then I think I even saw some that maybe diverge, which ended, not that.
06/04/2026 - 18:57:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:22:31 (Artemis Clock) | Fantastic, Victor, and I'll note that we can infer that you're looking down at your freshly named Integrity crater, which is near the end of one of those beautiful crater rays from Orientale. Thanks for the description.
06/04/2026 - 18:57:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:22:51 (Artemis Clock) | with the naked eye from this point.
06/04/2026 - 18:58:50 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:23:50 (Artemis Clock) | One of those things is Hertsprung Basin.
06/04/2026 - 18:59:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:24:11 (Artemis Clock) | view coming from the Orion spacecraft and a camera mounted on its solar array.
06/04/2026 - 18:59:42 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:24:42 (Artemis Clock) | In about 43 minutes. Again, the spacecraft will fly behind the moon, and during that time, we won't have communication with them. They will be out of reach of our deep space network. However, we will regain communication with them approximately 40, four-zero minutes later, when they come around the other side of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:00:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:25:14 (Artemis Clock) | the lunar surface, and it's already been very interesting to hear that they have seen colors like greens and browns while looking at the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:00:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:25:51 (Artemis Clock) | none of their targets when they are photographing at the window.
06/04/2026 - 19:01:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:26:11 (Artemis Clock) | their findings and experience when looking at the moon today.
06/04/2026 - 19:01:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:26:33 (Artemis Clock) | while the crew is discussing the terminator. If you're just joining us, you're looking at a live view of the moon, our moon, from the Orion spacecraft and a camera on its solar array.
06/04/2026 - 19:01:39 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:26:39 (Artemis Clock) | Inside that spacecraft, four astronauts: Reid Wiseman, Victor Glover, Christina Koch, and Jeremy Hansen, the first four people to fly around the moon in over fifty years.
06/04/2026 - 19:02:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:27:09 (Artemis Clock) | passed one record today. The crew passed the Apollo 13 distance record at 12:57 p.m. Central, 1:57 p.m. Eastern. Canadian Space Agency astronaut Jeremy Hansen calling down that he hopes it's a record.
06/04/2026 - 19:02:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:27:18 (Artemis Clock) | Soon broken by other explorers.
06/04/2026 - 19:03:21 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:28:21 (Artemis Clock) | We are live in Artemis Mission Control in Houston, Texas, monitoring the flight of Artemis II. All of the flight controllers here, each monitoring a different system aboard the Orion spacecraft. Integrity Houston, we are ready for our cabin and window teams to swap again.
06/04/2026 - 19:03:52 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:28:52 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, Houston, we are ready.
06/04/2026 - 19:04:33 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:29:33 (Artemis Clock) | Ready to write those down. They differ slightly from Optimus.
06/04/2026 - 19:04:45 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:29:45 (Artemis Clock) | Station, we are ready to copy. Lunar closest approach will be at MET 5 days, 0 hours, 25 minutes, 34 seconds.
06/04/2026 - 19:05:07 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:30:07 (Artemis Clock) | And the altitude will be 4,067 statute miles. Maximum Earth altitude will be at MET five days.
06/04/2026 - 19:05:09 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:30:09 (Artemis Clock) | Zero hours, two seven minutes.
06/04/2026 - 19:05:12 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:30:12 (Artemis Clock) | three nine seconds.
06/04/2026 - 19:05:14 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:30:14 (Artemis Clock) | With an altitude of
06/04/2026 - 19:05:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:30:23 (Artemis Clock) | two hundred and fifty-two thousand seven hundred and fifty-six statute miles
06/04/2026 - 19:06:00 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:31:00 (Artemis Clock) | The crew really wants to ask for that in kilometers and parsecs, but thank you for those. That is great. Thanks for that update. I'll send FIDO to work, and I appreciate the metric. Other than that, I have no new vehicle statuses.
06/04/2026 - 19:06:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:31:06 (Artemis Clock) | to pass you. Enjoy your handover time, and we're looking forward to picking back up with you shortly.
06/04/2026 - 19:06:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:31:26 (Artemis Clock) | Talk to you shortly.
06/04/2026 - 19:06:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:31:47 (Artemis Clock) | astronaut and Artemis II backup crew member to the crew working aboard the Orion spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 19:06:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:31:53 (Artemis Clock) | Add a little bit of a view inside the cabin. As you can see, it is very dark. The crew has turned off the lights, and the light that you were able to see is coming through the window, a reflection of Earthshine and from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:07:31 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:32:31 (Artemis Clock) | audio files that will be downlinked later to the science team. Meanwhile, Victor Glover and Christina Koch were in the background serving as support. They were also timelined to enjoy a little bit of their midday meal. Now that we are swapping positions, the
06/04/2026 - 19:07:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:32:51 (Artemis Clock) | swaps, as well as providing those situational reports to the science team.
06/04/2026 - 19:07:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:32:57 (Artemis Clock) | Victor Glover and Christina Koch will be the astronauts at the window, photographing and speaking into those PCDs, portable computing devices, about what they're seeing on the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:08:23 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:33:23 (Artemis Clock) | loss of signal scheduled to be less than 35 minutes from now. We anticipate to be out of signal with them for about 40 minutes, and we'll regain that communication once they've flown around the other side of the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:09:06 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:34:06 (Artemis Clock) | Now, even the crew, even though the crew will be flying behind the moon, their observation period does not stop. They will still be taking pictures and making annotations of what they are seeing. They'll be looking for the limb of the moon, Earth set, and then Vavilov crater, which we have previewed.
06/04/2026 - 19:09:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:34:32 (Artemis Clock) | pick things that are interesting to them on the surface, take pictures, and explain why they find them that way. They'll also be looking for any impact flashes. These are short-lived flashes on the lunar surface caused by impact bombardment.
06/04/2026 - 19:09:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:34:58 (Artemis Clock) | surface and we could only see it just before Earthrise along the dark western limb.
06/04/2026 - 19:10:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:35:04 (Artemis Clock) | Any Earthshine would illuminate potential lofted dust, but once the crew is all the way around the Earth, the brightness of the Earth will wash out any of that dust they might be able to see.
06/04/2026 - 19:10:24 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:35:24 (Artemis Clock) | capture some of that lunar dust today.
06/04/2026 - 19:10:44 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:35:44 (Artemis Clock) | Shortly after Earthrise.
06/04/2026 - 19:11:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:36:11 (Artemis Clock) | in view because the team here in Mission Control Houston will need to change the attitude of the spacecraft and ensure that its solar arrays are gathering light from the sun heading into that eclipse period. So we will have communication with the crew, we just won't be able to see the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:11:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:36:38 (Artemis Clock) | During that time, the science team is looking to know, it will only be illuminated by Earthshine at that point, so they want to know what the whole moon looks like overall, but they also want the crew to look into deep space and potentially see if they can spot any planets.
06/04/2026 - 19:11:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:36:59 (Artemis Clock) | Once the eclipse is over, the lunar flyby period will have ended.
06/04/2026 - 19:12:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:37:05 (Artemis Clock) | We are live through the whole thing, and even once flyby is over today, we remain live 24/7 on NASA's YouTube.
06/04/2026 - 19:12:11 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:37:11 (Artemis Clock) | Go ahead.
06/04/2026 - 19:12:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:37:37 (Artemis Clock) | just wanted to just let you know how much fun we're having out here. It's extraordinary to be on the far side of the moon right now, just hanging out there, looking back at the Earth. And Ashley and Kayla, I know you're back in Canada, but if you happen to be watching too, I just wanted to say hi to all you guys. Love you guys, and we'll be
06/04/2026 - 19:12:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:37:43 (Artemis Clock) | Heading back your way shortly.
06/04/2026 - 19:12:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:37:48 (Artemis Clock) | Thanks, Jeremy. I hear they are watching and your family is still here. So thanks for passing that along.
06/04/2026 - 19:13:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:38:59 (Artemis Clock) | Living room and watching online.
06/04/2026 - 19:14:05 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:39:05 (Artemis Clock) | Currently in the window are Victor Glover and Christina Koch. They are taking pictures outside of the window as they are now in their flyby observation block.
06/04/2026 - 19:14:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:39:37 (Artemis Clock) | On the lunch menu today for Reid Wiseman and Jeremy Hansen, we have vegetarian chili, salmon croquettes, chicken with peanut sauce, sweet and savory kale, pickled beets, chocolate pudding, barbecued beef brisket, spaghetti and meat sauce, Italian vegetables, butternut squash.
06/04/2026 - 19:14:43 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:39:43 (Artemis Clock) | Squash, candy-coated chocolates, and maybe even a little bit of coffee.
06/04/2026 - 19:15:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:40:10 (Artemis Clock) | And if you look closely, you can see it looks like they are getting into some of their food for the midday meal. All of the food on the spacecraft is rehydratable. We don't have an option for fresh food, as there's not a refrigerated section of the Orion spacecraft, so all of this food...
06/04/2026 - 19:15:30 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:40:30 (Artemis Clock) | information on each package of how much water needs to fill that bag and what temperature it needs to be.
06/04/2026 - 19:15:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:40:51 (Artemis Clock) | to the flight of Artemis II, the spacecraft now under 4,500 miles from the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:16:19 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:41:19 (Artemis Clock) | We are now also under 30 minutes away from loss of signal with the astronauts. We will regain that communication about 40 minutes later. They will still be photographing the moon and documenting what they're seeing while they're behind the moon.
06/04/2026 - 19:16:29 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:41:29 (Artemis Clock) | And we especially look forward to potential Earth set and Earth rise views.
06/04/2026 - 19:16:56 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:41:56 (Artemis Clock) | The science team also plans to capture an occasional still photo with the solar array intermittently, perhaps one every 8 to 10 minutes. Still photos represent the highest resolution imagery from those GoPro cameras. So starting five minutes before Earth set and loss of signal, the science team will capture
06/04/2026 - 19:17:17 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:42:17 (Artemis Clock) | thrise and acquisition of Signal.
06/04/2026 - 19:17:38 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:42:38 (Artemis Clock) | And we really look forward to seeing those higher resolution images once they're available.
06/04/2026 - 19:17:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:42:48 (Artemis Clock) | But with the view you are seeing right now, we are sharing bandwidth on the Orion spacecraft with every system that is keeping the spacecraft powered and the crew alive, especially the environmental control and life support system. As this is the first flight with crew, this is also the first flight of a life support system.
06/04/2026 - 19:17:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:42:54 (Artemis Clock) | keeping the crew healthy and safe on the way to the Moon and the way home.
06/04/2026 - 19:18:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:43:26 (Artemis Clock) | On the timeline, we're getting towards the end of the cabin and window team swap period, but it looks like our astronauts Victor Glover and Christina Koch are already photographing the moon outside of those windows.
06/04/2026 - 19:18:47 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:43:47 (Artemis Clock) | Complex crater with a prominent ray system, and as referenced earlier, it's the size of the Eye of the Sahara.
06/04/2026 - 19:18:53 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:43:53 (Artemis Clock) | That eye of the Sahara is a feature in Mauritania.
06/04/2026 - 19:18:59 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:43:59 (Artemis Clock) | Seeing this crater more than once throughout the flyby allows the science team to photograph it at different lighting conditions.
06/04/2026 - 19:19:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:44:26 (Artemis Clock) | and can help the science team learn a little bit more about how it formed and what it is today.
06/04/2026 - 19:20:37 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:45:37 (Artemis Clock) | Again, this view inside the spacecraft as the crew continues photographing the moon outside their windows.
06/04/2026 - 19:20:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:45:48 (Artemis Clock) | They have turned the lights off to allow them to better get photos of the moon preventing any reflections from coming in from the spacecraft.
06/04/2026 - 19:22:41 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:47:41 (Artemis Clock) | We expect the crew to be targeting home crater for another six minutes or so before they move into a discussion of the LEM. Now the science team has asked for a science sit rep or a situation report during that time, so we hope to hear calls from the crew on what they are observing.
06/04/2026 - 19:23:18 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:48:18 (Artemis Clock) | If you've been following along, at the start of the day, we did have much more of the moon visible. And even just an hour or so ago, we could see about half of the moon. We are now continuing to see more of the far side and that darkness where the moon is not reflecting light from the sun.
06/04/2026 - 19:23:22 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:48:22 (Artemis Clock) | Son
06/04/2026 - 19:24:10 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:49:10 (Artemis Clock) | We are now just seeing very little of Orientale, that's down to the bottom right of the moon, you can see just a small dark portion near the limb.
06/04/2026 - 19:24:51 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:49:51 (Artemis Clock) | minutes away from loss of signal with the Orion crew.
06/04/2026 - 19:24:57 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:49:57 (Artemis Clock) | Again, we use the Deep Space Network to communicate with the crew members when they are this far from Earth. This is the first mission since Apollo when we have had humans on the Deep Space Network.
06/04/2026 - 19:25:49 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:50:49 (Artemis Clock) | and 67 statute miles above the earth's surface.
06/04/2026 - 19:26:16 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:51:16 (Artemis Clock) | time would be 252,756 statute miles. These are our latest numbers and we'll make sure to verify and confirm those once those milestones have been achieved. Obviously we will be without communication to the spacecraft at that time, so once we regain communication we will
06/04/2026 - 19:29:48 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:54:48 (Artemis Clock) | photos and making annotations are Victor Glover and Christina Cook. We are expecting loss of signal in about 13 minutes. We will regain that signal with the crew about 40 minutes later.
06/04/2026 - 19:31:04 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:56:04 (Artemis Clock) | verbal descriptions of what will be helpful to the science team reviewing those pictures later. That's what we've been tracking real-time and what the crew is using right now to keep up with their next milestones.
06/04/2026 - 19:32:35 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:57:35 (Artemis Clock) | Integrity Houston, ten minutes till the LOS. We'll take a snappy SITREP from the cabin if you have one.
06/04/2026 - 19:33:02 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:58:02 (Artemis Clock) | Okay, Jenny, that came, we missed most of that, but just a 10-minute warning, is that what you're saying? Ten-minute warning for the LOS, and I'll take a quick SITREP from the cabin, please.
06/04/2026 - 19:33:26 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:58:26 (Artemis Clock) | All right, cabin is still full of excitement. We've got Christina in window 2, Victor in window 3. Reid's actually been trying to get some images out of the docking tunnel. We can see the Earth and the moon and part of the moon out of the docking tunnel, which is pretty good.
06/04/2026 - 19:33:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:58:32 (Artemis Clock) | And I'm just grabbing some footage right now with our interior cameras.
06/04/2026 - 19:33:54 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:58:54 (Artemis Clock) | is using and also the status of window 1, looks like there might be a shroud removed.
06/04/2026 - 19:34:20 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:59:20 (Artemis Clock) | Reflecting around.
06/04/2026 - 19:34:32 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:59:32 (Artemis Clock) | Copy, that makes a lot of sense to us, Jeremy. I want to remind you, coming up on this LOS that we'll take Sitreps in the blind, and as more and more of the moon is in darkness, we will take any report you have on impact flashes.
06/04/2026 - 19:34:58 (-3 TMZ) | 04:23:59:58 (Artemis Clock) | All right, Eddie, you'll have to say again, you're last. There's a lot of conversation here, and I was on the other side of the cabin, so I missed all of it. Look out for impact flashes, and we'll take SIT reps in the blind.
